                                         EUROPEAN ORGANIZATION FOR NUCLEAR RESEARCH (CERN)


                                                                                                          CERN-EP-2018-219
                                                                                                          2018/11/08




                                         CMS-EXO-17-017




                                         Search for physics beyond the standard model in high-mass
                                              diphoton events from
                                                                √ proton-proton collisions at
                                                                  s = 13 TeV
arXiv:1809.00327v2 [hep-ex] 7 Nov 2018




                                                                              The CMS Collaboration∗



                                                                                           Abstract

                                             A search for physics beyond the standard model is performed using√ a sample of high-
                                             mass diphoton events produced in proton-proton collisions at s = 13 TeV. The data
                                             sample was collected in 2016 with the CMS detector at the LHC and corresponds
                                             to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb−1 . The search is performed for both resonant
                                             and nonresonant new physics signatures. At 95% confidence level, lower limits on
                                             the mass of the first Kaluza–Klein excitation of the graviton in the Randall–Sundrum
                                             warped extra-dimensional model are determined to be in the range of 2.3 to 4.6 TeV,
                                             for values of the associated coupling parameter between 0.01 and 0.2. Lower limits
                                             on the production of scalar resonances and model-independent cross section upper
                                             limits are also provided. For the large extra-dimensional model of Arkani-Hamed,
                                             Dimopoulos, and Dvali, lower limits are set on the string mass scale MS ranging from
                                             5.6 to 9.7 TeV, depending on the model parameters. The first exclusion limits are set
                                             in the two-dimensional parameter space of a continuum clockwork model.


                                                     Published in Physical Review D as doi:10.1103/PhysRevD.98.092001.




                                         c 2018 CERN for the benefit of the CMS Collaboration. CC-BY-4.0 license
                                          ∗ See   Appendix A for the list of collaboration members
                                                                                                     1


1    Introduction
While the standard model (SM) of particle physics has been an enormously successful descrip-
tion of observed phenomena, it is still widely believed to be incomplete. In the SM, the Higgs
boson mass receives quantum corrections from loops containing SM particles. Because the
Higgs boson is a fundamental scalar, the magnitude of the mass corrections is set by the cutoff
parameter of the loop integrals and the only natural mass scale in the SM that can act as a cutoff
is the Planck scale (MPl ∼ 1019 GeV) at which quantum gravity is expected to emerge. There-
fore, unless the Higgs boson mass parameter is fine-tuned to an extreme degree, there must
exist some new physics beyond the SM to constrain these quantum corrections and stabilize
the mass of the Higgs boson. Many models for such new physics have been proposed. We
consider three such models in this paper.
Through their modification of the effective Planck scale, extra spatial dimensions have been
proposed as a possible solution to this hierarchy problem [1, 2], which arises from the large
difference between the gravitational and electroweak scales. In the model proposed by Arkani-
Hamed, Dimopoulos, and Dvali (ADD) [3–5], the existence of nED additional spatial dimen-
sions, compactified with an average radius rc , produces an effective Planck mass MPl in our
four-dimensional (4D) world that is related to the true Planck mass by MPl  2 ∼ M2+nED       r nED . It
                                                                                   Pl(4+nED ) c
is therefore possible, with appropriate values for nED and rc , that the value of the Planck scale
in (4+nED )-dimensional spacetime, MPl(4+nED ) , could be of the order of the electroweak scale,
thus solving the SM hierarchy problem, while still producing the much larger apparent Planck
scale that we observe in our 4D world. In effect, the true strength of gravity could actually be
comparable to the electroweak force, and it merely appears weaker because of its propagation
in the extra dimensions. At the same time, the SM gauge forces and particles are confined to
our 4D spacetime.
Randall and Sundrum (RS) proposed an alternative model [6, 7] with just one additional dimen-
sion that has a warped geometry, described by a curvature parameter k. The extra dimension
is compactified with radius rc . From the point of view of a 4D observer, a fundamental mass
parameter m0 defined on the SM brane in the full five-dimensional (5D) theory will appear as
a physical mass m = e−krc π m0 . In this model, solving the hierarchy problem requires that the
fundamental mass should be m0 ∼ MPl and the observed mass should be at the TeV scale. Be-
cause of the exponential warp factor, this large hierarchy can be generated if krc ≈ 11–12, thus
requiring very little fine tuning.
A third proposed solution to the hierarchy problem that we consider in this paper is the contin-
uum clockwork mechanism [8], which coincides with a 5D gravitational theory on a linear dila-
ton background [9, 10]. The clockwork [11, 12] is a general mechanism that can introduce large
effective interaction scales from dynamics occurring at much lower energies. This is achieved
by introducing N copies of some particle content on different sites forming a one-dimensional
lattice in theory space. The physical mass spectrum consists of a single massless mode localized
on the end site of the lattice and a set of massive modes (‘gears’) distributed along the sites. In
the continuum limit of the clockwork with N → ∞, this lattice is interpreted as a physical extra
dimension.
In all three models, deviations from the SM expectations should be evident at the CERN LHC
through Kaluza–Klein (KK) modes of the graviton, which couple to the SM through the stress-
energy tensor and decay into two SM particles. Searches for pairs of high-mass photons are
favorable because the SM backgrounds are lower and the mass resolution is better than in the
dijet channel, and the branching fraction to diphoton final states is larger than that to dilepton
2


final states. In the ADD model, the compactification of the extra dimensions gives rise to a KK
series of virtual graviton states because the momenta along the extra dimensions are quantized
and appear as additional contributions to the graviton effective mass. Here, the KK modes are
very closely spaced, leading to an effective nonresonant enhancement of the diphoton spectrum
at high invariant mass (mγγ ). In the RS model, the presence of the additional spatial dimension
quantizes the masses of the KK states. These states are   √ widely spaced and become narrow
in the limit of small k̃ ≡ k/MPl , where MPl = MPl / 8π is the reduced Planck mass. In
the continuum clockwork mechanism, the gears play the role of the KK modes. The usual
massless graviton is accompanied by an infinite tower of massive spin-2 graviton gears with a
characteristic pattern of masses and couplings. In particular, the masses of the graviton gears
can be so densely distributed that they produce an approximately continuous contribution to
the diphoton spectrum as a function of mγγ [13, 14], much like in the ADD model. However,
unlike the ADD model, the KK modes are entirely on shell, as in the RS case, so interference
effects are negligible.
In addition to the above models that could address the hierarchy problem, high-mass diphoton
events are also potentially sensitive to other beyond-SM physics, such as the decays of heavy
spin-0 resonances. These spin-0 resonances could arise from extended Higgs sectors [15–17].
Model-independent cross section limits can be obtained on generic production of exotic spin-0
and spin-2 resonances decaying to pairs of photons.
Searches for new physics in the high-mass diphoton channel from Run 2 of the LHC were pre-
viously √
        performed by the ATLAS and CMS experiments using pp collisions at a center-of-mass
energy s = 13 TeV [18–21]. Prior
                              √    searches have also been performed by both experiments in
Run 1 of the LHC [22–25], at s = 7 and 8√TeV, and also at the Tevatron by the CDF [26] and
D0 [27] experiments using pp collisions at s = 1.96 TeV.
We present new results from a search for beyond-SM physics in the high-mass diphoton spec-
trum, using data collected with the CMS detector in 2016 corresponding to an integrated lu-
minosity of 35.9 fb−1 . Two complementary background estimation techniques are used. For
a search for resonant excesses such as in the RS model, we implement a technique where the
diphoton spectrum is fit to a parametrized functional form, allowing for a fully data-driven
description of the shape. To search for nonresonant deviations from the SM prediction like
those that arise in the ADD and clockwork models, a next-to-next-to-leading-order (NNLO)
calculation of the SM diphoton background is performed and the background from jets being
misidentified as photons is estimated from control samples in data.
The remainder of this document is organized as follows. The CMS detector is described in
Section 2. Event reconstruction and selection are outlined in Section 3. Section 4 describes
the simulation of extra-dimensional signal models, and the background determinations for the
searches for resonant and nonresonant excesses are described in Section 5. Sources of system-
atic uncertainty are discussed in Section 6. We present our results in Section 7.


2   The CMS detector
The CMS detector is a multi-purpose collider detector at the LHC. The central feature of the
CMS apparatus is a superconducting solenoid of 6 m internal diameter, providing a magnetic
field of 3.8 T. Within the solenoid volume are a silicon pixel and strip tracker, a lead tungstate
crystal electromagnetic calorimeter (ECAL), and a brass and scintillator hadron calorimeter
(HCAL), each composed of a barrel and two endcap sections. Forward calorimeters extend the
pseudorapidity (η) coverage provided by the barrel and endcap detectors. Muons are detected
                                                                                                3


in gas-ionization chambers embedded in the steel flux-return yoke outside the solenoid.
The ECAL barrel (EB) provides coverage in the range |η | < 1.48. This is extended by each
ECAL endcap (EE) to 1.48 < |η | < 3. In the EB, photons that have energies above the range
of tens of GeV have an energy resolution of about 1.3% up to |η | = 1, rising to about 2.5% at
|η | = 1.4. In each EE, photons in this energy range have a resolution between 3 and 4% [28].
Events of interest are selected using a two-tiered trigger system [29]. The first level, composed
of custom hardware processors, uses information from the calorimeters and muon detectors to
select events at a rate of around 100 kHz within a time interval of less than 4 µs. The second
level, known as the high-level trigger, consists of a farm of processors running a version of the
full event reconstruction software optimized for fast processing, and reduces the event rate to
around 1 kHz before data storage.
A more detailed description of the CMS detector, together with a definition of the coordinate
system used and the relevant kinematic variables, can be found in Ref. [30].


3   Event reconstruction and selection
Individual particles in the CMS detector are reconstructed using the particle-flow event algo-
rithm [31]. Photon candidates are reconstructed from energy deposits in the ECAL. Individ-
ual energy deposits are grouped into superclusters [28] that are compatible with the expected
shower shape extending along the azimuthal (φ) direction. This allows for the recovery of the
energy deposited by bremsstrahlung and photon conversions. The clustering algorithm does
not make any hypothesis as to whether the particle originating from the interaction point is a
photon or an electron. Thus the same algorithm used for photon reconstruction can be applied
to Z → e+ e− events and these events are used to measure the efficiency of the photon selection
criteria and of the photon energy scale and resolution. A more detailed description of photon
reconstruction in the CMS detector can be found in Ref. [28].
Reconstructed photon candidates must pass additional identification criteria to suppress
misidentified jets and electrons, while maintaining high efficiency. These criteria are based
on observables sensitive to the electromagnetic shower shape and the extra activity surround-
ing the shower. The electromagnetic shower shape is measured using σηη , the spatial second-
order moment of the photon candidate in the η direction [28]. Isolation variables are based
on the total transverse momentum of particle candidates with coordinates (η, φ) reconstructed
within√ a cone of size ∆R = 0.3 around the photon candidate with coordinates (ηγ , φγ ), where
∆R = (η − ηγ )2 + (φ − φγ )2 . Separate isolation variables are defined for charged hadron and
photon candidates. Electrons are vetoed based on hits in the silicon pixel and strip trackers with
a further check to ensure photon candidates associated with electron tracks are incompatible
with those resulting from photon conversions.
Events are selected by a trigger that requires at least two reconstructed photon candidates, each
with transverse momentum pT > 60 GeV. For these events, the ratio of the energy deposited
in the HCAL behind each photon candidate and the photon energy in the ECAL is required to
be less than 0.15. To avoid non-uniform efficiency near the trigger threshold, a more stringent
selection of photon pT > 75 GeV is applied offline. Events are required to have one photon in
the EB with |η | < 1.44, and another in either the EB or in an EE, where it must have 1.57 <
|η | < 2.5. Events with both photon candidates in the EEs are dominated by SM production
and have negligible sensitivity to the target beyond-SM signals, and thus are omitted from
this analysis. Two signal regions are considered: one with both photons in the EB, denoted
4


EBEB, and the other with one photon in the EB and the other in either EE, denoted EBEE. The
invariant mass of the photon pair must satisfy a minimum requirement of mγγ > 230 and
330 GeV in the EBEB and EBEE categories, respectively. This threshold avoids sculpting of the
distribution while maintaining full efficiency in each region. In the search for nonresonant
signals, this requirement is increased to mγγ > 500 GeV in both categories and photon pairs
must additionally satisfy ∆R > 0.45, to be consistent with the background calculation for SM
diphoton production, as described in Section 5.2.
The trigger and identification efficiencies are found to be compatible within uncertainties (3%)
between data and simulation and the overall efficiency is about 90 (87)% for single photons in
the barrel (endcaps). The selection criteria as well as the level of agreement between data and
simulation were determined using simulated signal, background, and control data samples and
were fixed before inspecting the diphoton invariant mass distribution in the search regions. The
product of the event selection efficiency (ε) and the detector acceptance (A) is shown in Fig. 1
for two spin hypotheses in the narrowest resonance-width scenario considered in this analysis,
as discussed further in Section 4. (For the other two resonance-width hypotheses considered,
the acceptance values are very close to this one.)

                                                                            13 TeV
                          0.8
                    ε×A




                                CMS
                          0.7   Simulation
                          0.6

                          0.5
                                                    ΓX                ∼
                                                    mX = 1.4 × 10 ,   κ = 0.01
                                                                 -4


                          0.4
                                                        EBEB J=0         EBEB J=2

                          0.3                           EBEE J=0         EBEE J=2

                          0.2                           Total J=0        Total J=2


                          0.1

                           0
                                 1000        2000     3000            4000
                                                                        mX (GeV)

Figure 1: The product of the event selection efficiency (ε) and the detector acceptance (A) is
shown as a function of signal resonance mass mX for the ΓX /mX = 1.4 × 10−4 signal width
hypothesis. The total (black), EBEB (red), and EBEE (blue) curves are shown for the spin (J)
hypotheses J = 0 (solid) and J = 2 (dashed).

In order to obtain the optimal energy resolution, the ECAL signals are calibrated and corrected
for several detector effects. The variation of the crystal transparency during data taking is
monitored and corrected using a dedicated monitoring system and the single-channel response
is equalized using collision events. The data used for this analysis were reconstructed with a
detector calibration optimized for the 2016 data taking conditions. The energies of the photon
candidates are first measured by the ECAL and are then corrected for shower noncontainment
effects using a multivariate regression procedure. The corrections are tuned using a simulation
of photon candidates with energies spanning the entire range explored by this analysis.
Differences in the photon energy scale and resolution between data and simulation are esti-
mated using dielectron events. Energy scale and resolution corrections are derived primarily
                                                                                                5


from Z → e+ e− events, with the electrons reconstructed as photons, using the procedure de-
scribed in Ref. [28]. The corrections are derived in eight categories defined in terms of the R9
variable (defined as the ratio of the energy deposited in the central 3×3 crystal matrix and the
full cluster energy) and the location of the photon within the detector along the η direction.
The size of the energy scale corrections derived from Z → e+ e− events is of the order of 0.5%,
while the additional Gaussian smearing needed to match the energy resolution of simulated
events with that in data varies between 0.8 and 1.5% for photon candidates in the EB region
and between 2 and 2.5% for photon candidates in the EE regions.
The diphoton mass resolution has contributions from the measurements of the photon energies
and from the resolution of the measurement between the two photons. If the z position of the
vertex from which the photons originate is known to within about 10 mm, then the experimen-
tal angular resolution between the photons makes a negligible contribution to the mass resolu-
tion. Correctly associating the diphoton candidate with one of the vertices reconstructed from
the charged-particle tracks in the event satisfies the above requirements since the positions of
these vertices are measured with far greater precision. The interaction vertex associated with
the diphoton system is selected using the algorithm described in Refs. [32, 33]. Because photons
do not deposit ionization energy in the tracker, the assignment of the diphoton candidate to a
vertex can only be done indirectly by exploiting the properties of each reconstructed vertex.
Three discriminating variables are calculated for each reconstructed vertex: the p2T sum of the
charged-particle tracks associated with the vertex, and two variables that quantify the vector
and scalar balance of pT between the diphoton system and the tracks associated with the vertex.
In addition, if either photon has an associated track that has been identified as originating from
a photon conversion to an electron-positron pair, the conversion information is used. These
variables provide the inputs to a multivariate classifier based on a boosted decision tree used
to select the reconstructed vertex of the diphoton system. For signal events with diphoton in-
variant masses above 500 GeV, the fraction of events in which the interaction vertex is correctly
assigned is approximately 90%.


4   Signal simulation
The ADD signal samples used in this analysis were produced at leading order (LO) using the
Monte Carlo (MC) event generator SHERPA 2.1.1 [34] with the CT10 set of parton distribution
functions (PDFs) [35, 36]. These simulations include the effect of interference between the ADD
signal and the SM diphoton processes, which can be large. To be able to set limits on possible
deviations from the SM, additional SM-only samples are generated identically, and the differ-
ence between these and the ADD samples therefore encompasses the combined effects of the
ADD signal and the interference.
The implementation of the ADD model within SHERPA is parametrized by the ultraviolet string
cutoff scale MS , which is related to the fundamental Planck scale and the number of extra di-
mensions nED . Since the ADD model is an effective theory only valid below the cutoff scale, the
generated diphoton mass spectra are truncated at the chosen value of MS . The amplitude for
a process involving virtual graviton exchange involves a sum over the KK tower of graviton
mass states. This process can be represented by a higher-dimensional operator with coeffi-
cients suppressed by some mass scale [37], which can be parametrized by ηG = F /MS4 , where
F is a dimensionless parameter for which several conventions exist in the literature. We con-
sider the conventions by Giudice, Rattazzi, and Wells (GRW) [38], by Han, Lykken, and Zhang
6


(HLZ) [39], and by Hewett [40], expressed as:
                                 
                                 
                                  1 (GRW),
                                 log MS2 , if n = 2
                                 
                                       
                                            ŝ          ED
                           F=                               (HLZ),                               (1)
                                     2
                                 
                                  n  − 2 ,    if n ED > 2
                                  ED2
                                 
                                 
                                   ± π (Hewett),
      √
where ŝ is the center-of-mass energy of the colliding partons.
Signal model assumptions from different conventions but with the same value of ηG are equiv-
alent, reducing the number of distinct scenarios allowed by Eq. (1). All possible choices of
model parameters can be made equivalent to the signals produced using either the convention
by GRW, HLZ assuming nED = 2, or Hewett using F = −2/π. Twelve model points for each
choice are generated in the range 3 < MS < 11 TeV. For each model point, the CMS detector
response is simulated using G EANT 4 [41] and includes the effects of multiple proton-proton
collisions occurring within the same LHC bunch crossing, known as ‘pileup’.
No additional samples are needed to generate the clockwork signal; instead the ADD signal
samples are reinterpreted to produce the clockwork prediction. In the clockwork model, the
KK modes are all on shell, so there is no interference effect, while the ADD prediction includes
both a direct term and an interference term. The GRW and negative Hewett models have oppo-
site signs for the interference term, so the direct term can be isolated by linearly adding, with
appropriate weights, the predictions assuming the GRW and negative Hewett conventions.
The direct term is then rescaled by Eq. (2), provided by the authors of Ref. [14]:
                               s               "                                    # −1
                        30MS8                        (52 )(7)(17) 
                                                                             r
                                       k2 1                             k 9 mγγ
          θ (mγγ − k )            1− 2           1+                 1−                   .    (2)
                       283πM53        mγγ m5γγ        (283)(28 )       mγγ       k

Here, MS is defined in the GRW convention, M5 is the fundamental scale of the gravitational
interactions, and k is the ‘clockwork spring’, which, phenomenologically, controls the energy
scale at which the KK modes can be excited. To solve the hierarchy problem, M5 should be
close to the electroweak scale. Demanding perturbativity of the theory imposes the constraint
k < M5 .
For resonant diphoton production, the signal distribution in mγγ is determined from the con-
volution of the intrinsic shape of the resonance and the ECAL detector response. The intrinsic
shapes of both the spin-0 and spin-2 resonant signals were derived using the PYTHIA 8.2 [42]
event generator with the NNPDF2.3 [43] set of PDFs and the CUETP8M1 [44] underlying event
tune. The spin-0 signal corresponds to a heavy SM-like Higgs boson, while the spin-2 sig-
nal corresponds to the RS graviton. Three signal width hypotheses are considered: ΓX /mX =
1.4 × 10−4 , 1.4 × 10−2 , and 5.6 × 10−2 , corresponding to a width narrower than, comparable to,
and wider than the detector resolution, respectively. These three width hypotheses correspond,
in the case of an RS graviton, to k̃ = 0.01, 0.1, and 0.2, respectively. A set of signal samples was
simulated excluding the detector response, forming a fine grid of mass points with 125 GeV
spacing. These samples are used to measure the signal kinematic acceptance and generator-
level mass shape. The resulting shapes are interpolated to intermediate mass points using a
parametric description of the distribution. The detector response was determined using signal
samples simulated with G EANT 4, and includes the effects of pileup. These samples were gen-
erated assuming small intrinsic width, with additional Gaussian smearing, determined using
dielectron events, applied to correct the simulated resolution to that of data. Nine equidis-
tant mass hypotheses in the range 500–4500 GeV were employed. The signal mass resolution,
                                                                                               7


quantified through the ratio of the full width at half maximum (FWHM) of the distribution,
divided by 2.35, to the peak position, is roughly 1 and 1.5% for the EBEB and EBEE categories,
respectively.
For the spin-0 and spin-2 assumptions, in order to determine the signal normalization the final
selection efficiency was combined with the kinematic acceptance. The former is obtained from
fully simulated samples and interpolated using a quadratic function of the resonance mass;
the latter is obtained from the finely spaced grid of samples and parametrized as a quadratic
function of both the resonance mass and its width.


5     Background determination
The primary background to the signal comes from prompt SM diphoton production. An ad-
ditional and reducible source of background occurs when a fragmenting jet mimics a genuine
photon signature in the detector. Two different methods are used to determine the SM back-
ground. As described in Section 5.1, the resonant signal search uses a maximum likelihood fit
to the diphoton invariant mass spectrum, seeking a local excess in the data that could indicate
the presence of beyond-SM physics. The nonresonant signal search uses simulation to model
the SM diphoton component and a method based on control samples in data to estimate the
contribution from misidentified jets; this method is described in Section 5.2.

5.1   Background for resonant diphoton search
In the resonant signal search, the background mγγ spectrum is described by a parametric func-
tion of mγγ :
                                               a+b log(mγγ /GeV)
                                  f (mγγ ) = mγγ                   ,                          (3)
where the parameters a and b are obtained from a fit to the data and are considered as uncon-
strained nuisance parameters in the hypothesis test.
The chosen parametric form is designed to be an approximation of the true but unknown back-
ground shape. The degree of accuracy with which the model describes the true shape is tested
using a set of five different parametric models, all of which can describe relatively well the
observed mγγ spectrum. If the chosen model is flexible enough to accommodate the shape of
each of the alternative models, then we assume that it would likely be able to describe a similar
true background shape.
The accuracy of the background determination is assessed with data using the following pro-
cedure: five different parametric background models are fit to the data in order to build five
different truth models, and the accuracy of the chosen parametrization is quantified by study-
ing the difference between the true and predicted number of background events in several mγγ
intervals in the search region. The width of these intervals ranges between 10 and 500 GeV,
in order to keep an equal amount of data in each of the mass ranges. The five functions are
chosen from five different families of functions. For each family, the function that requires the
minimum number of parameters to fit the data with a χ2 probability greater then 5% is chosen.
Pseudo-experiments are drawn from the mass spectrum predicted by the different background
models. The total number of events in each pseudo-experiment is taken from a Poisson dis-
tribution where the mean is determined by the observation in data. For each interval, the
distribution of the pull variable, defined as the difference between the true and predicted num-
ber of events divided by the estimated statistical uncertainty, is constructed. If the absolute
value of the median of this distribution is found to be above 0.5 in a window, an additional
8


uncertainty is assigned to the background parametrization. A modified pull distribution is
then constructed increasing the statistical uncertainty on the fit by an extra term, denoted “bias
term”, which is parametrized as a smooth function of mγγ , tuned so that the absolute value
of the median of the modified pull distribution is below 0.5 for all regions. The additional
uncertainty is then included in the likelihood function by adding to the background model a
component having the same shape as the signal, with a normalization coefficient distributed
as a Gaussian function of mean zero and width equal to the integral of the bias term over the
FWHM of the tested signal shape. The inclusion of the additional component has the effect of
avoiding falsely positive or negative tests that could be induced by a mismodeling of the back-
ground shape, and it degrades the analysis sensitivity by 0.1 to 10% depending on the mass
and width of the signal hypothesis.

5.2   Background for nonresonant diphoton search
In the search for nonresonant deviations from the SM diphoton spectrum, we make a predic-
tion of the invariant mass distribution expected from SM diphoton events, as well as of con-
tributions from photon+jet or dijet events where one or two jets fragment in such a way as to
resemble a photon signature in the CMS detector. Prompt SM diphoton production can oc-
cur via quark annihilation or gluon fusion processes. This irreducible background is modeled
using the MC event generator SHERPA 2.1.1 [34, 45]. Up to three additional jets are added to
the diphoton final state, to better simulate phase space regions with small-to-medium angular
separation between the two photons. The CT10 set of PDFs is used for generation, and the gen-
erated events are subject to a simulation of the CMS detector response based on the G EANT 4
package [41]. While the inclusion of explicit final-state jets in the SHERPA sample incorporates
the real radiation component of higher-order corrections to the basic diphoton process, virtual
corrections are not included in these SHERPA simulated events. This is remedied by performing
a full NNLO calculation of SM diphoton production using MCFM 8.0 [46]. A K factor, defined
as the ratio of the MCFM NNLO prediction to the SHERPA prediction, is calculated as a function
of the diphoton invariant mass. This K factor is then used to reweight and correct the SHERPA
events (after detector simulation) to obtain the prediction for the SM diphoton invariant mass
spectrum from two real photons. The K factor is calculated separately for the EBEB and EBEE
acceptance categories, with the renormalization, factorization, and fragmentation scales for the
calculation set to be mγγ . Events with very small ∆Rγγ (<0.45) are rejected to avoid an infrared
divergence. The K factor for the EBEB (EBEE) event category varies from 1.4–1.8 (1.5–2.0) over
the range 0.5–2.0 TeV. Next-to-leading-order (NLO) K factors are also computed in a similar
way with both MCFM and DIPHOX [47], and are used to extract systematic uncertainties in the
shape of the central, NNLO calculation.
An additional background occurs from SM photon+jet or dijet events when one or two jets
fragment in such a way as to resemble a photon signature in the detector. Application of shower
shape and isolation criteria to the identification of photon candidates as described in Section 3
aims to minimize this reducible background, and we use a data-driven method to estimate
the remaining contribution. The method assumes that events where a jet has fragmented to
produce a fake photon signature in the detector can be modeled by other events where the
jet fragmented differently. We define two distinct categories of jet fragmentation objects, and
measure the ratio of the yields of objects in these two fragmentation categories, in a jet-triggered
reference data sample.
In the first category, whose objects are counted for the numerator of the ratio, are those misiden-
tified jets that pass the photon identification requirements; these are the ones whose contribu-
tion to the background we wish to determine. When measured in a reference data sample, how-
                                                                                                9


ever, genuine photons passing the same ID requirements contribute also to this category. This
contribution is subtracted out statistically, in the following way. The shower shape variable σηη
is used as a discriminant between genuine photons and jets misidentified as photons. A tem-
plate is constructed for the σηη distribution of real photons using simulated events, and a σηη
template for jets misidentified as photons is obtained from a control sample in data enriched
in such jets, by inverting the identification requirement for charged hadron isolation. These
templates are then fit to the observed σηη distribution of the numerator objects, to determine
the relative contribution of genuine photons, which is then subtracted. This template-fitting
and subtraction procedure is performed in bins of photon pT since the σηη templates are found
to be pT dependent. After this procedure, what remains is the contribution to the numerator
object category only from jets that have been misidentified as photons.
The denominator category consists of ‘photon-like’ jets that pass a less strict version of the
photon ID, but still have a high electromagnetic energy component. They are additionally
required to fail at least one of the isolation or shower shape requirements for photon candidate
identification, ensuring that the two fragmentation categories are mutually exclusive and that
there is negligible contamination from real photons in the denominator category.
The ratio of the numbers of objects in the two jet fragmentation categories is measured as a
function of the photon pT in an independent jet-triggered data sample. The background pre-
diction for jets that are misidentified as photons is then obtained by considering events con-
taining objects that pass the looser ‘photon-like’ jet definition, and reweighting those events
by the relative fragmentation ratio. This contribution from misidentified jets to the diphoton
spectrum is found to decrease within the mass range 0.5 < mγγ < 1 TeV from 9 to 4% of the
total background in the EBEB category and from 28 to 17% in the EBEE. For mγγ > 1 TeV, this
integrated contribution from jets misidentified as photons is predicted to be less than 4 (14)%
in the EBEB (EBEE).


6     Systematic uncertainties
6.1    Systematic uncertainties for the resonant search
The systematic uncertainties on the search for resonant diphoton signals are smaller than the
associated statistical uncertainties. The parametric background model has no associated sys-
tematic uncertainties, except for the bias term uncertainty described previously. The shape
coefficients are treated as unconstrained nuisance parameters, and thus the associated uncer-
tainties contribute to the statistical uncertainty.
Uncertainties associated with the signal modeling are:
    • a 2.5% uncertainty in the signal normalization assigned to reflect the uncertainty in
      the total integrated luminosity [48];
    • a 6% uncertainty in the signal normalization to reflect uncertainty in the selection
      efficiency;
    • a 6% uncertainty in the signal normalization in order to account for the variation
      in the kinematic acceptance estimated by comparing the use of the alternative PDF
      sets CT10 [35, 36], NNPDF2.3 [43], and MSTW08 [49] on the signal hypothesis and
      taking the largest deviation, following the PDF4LHC recommendations [50, 51];
    • a 1% uncertainty in the photon energy scale is included in the fit to take into account
      the uncertainty associated with the photon energy scale at the Z boson mass and its
      extrapolation to higher masses; and
10


     • the uncertainty in the photon energy resolution correction factor evaluated by sum-
       ming and subtracting 0.5% in quadrature from the estimated additional Gaussian
       smearing measured at the Z boson peak.

6.2    Systematic uncertainties for the nonresonant search
Although the SM diphoton background prediction is at NNLO accuracy, there is still the pos-
sibility of contribution from unaccounted-for higher-order terms. Therefore, we allow the
normalization of the predicted diphoton background to float freely, constrained only by the
data (predominantly at low mγγ where the statistical uncertainty is smallest). Floating the
normalization also absorbs sources of uncertainty associated with the integrated luminosity
measurement, trigger, and photon selection efficiency. Provided the shape of the signal differs
significantly from the background, the analysis will still discriminate between the two. Scale
uncertainties in the K factor calculation are estimated by simultaneously varying the renor-
malization, factorization, and fragmentation scales between mγγ /2 and 2mγγ . The difference
between the shape of the NNLO MCFM mγγ spectra and the shape predicted at NLO by MCFM
and DIPHOX is also taken as an uncertainty and as a conservative bound on the effects of the
absent higher-order terms.
Systematic uncertainties associated with the PDFs are calculated using DIPHOX at NLO with a
consistent set of NLO CT10 PDFs. The 26 eigenvectors of this PDF set are varied individually
by ±1 standard deviation (rather than taking an envelope), which allows us to treat consis-
tently the correlations of the uncertainties as a function of mγγ and between the EBEB and
EBEE categories. Uncertainties due to the photon energy scale and resolution have a negligi-
ble impact on the nonresonant search. The uncertainty in the misidentification rate for both
the barrel and endcap is approximately 30%, as estimated from the variation of the fake rate
as a function of pileup and photon η, and from the degree of variation observed in a test of
the method using MC simulation. A separate shape uncertainty due to differences in the sam-
ples from which the fake rate was constructed (using a multijet- or dimuon-triggered data set)
makes a subdominant contribution.
Uncertainties in the normalization of the extra dimensional signal from the measured inte-
grated luminosity and photon selection efficiency are 2.5 and 6%, respectively, in agreement
with the resonance search. Systematic uncertainties in the signal shape from PDFs are treated
in the same manner as the background by separately varying the 26 eigenvectors. These un-
certainties are assumed to be 100% correlated between signal and background. The effect of
the PDF uncertainty on the signal cross section is treated as a theoretical uncertainty and is not
propagated in the upper limits.


7     Results
7.1    Results of the search for resonant excesses
The mγγ distribution of the selected diphoton events and the background parametrization ob-
tained through an unbinned maximum likelihood fit to these events are shown in Fig. 2. This
parametric form corresponds to the one chosen to model the background given by Eq. (3), as
detailed in Section 5.
The results of the search are interpreted in the framework of a composite statistical hypoth-
esis test. A simultaneous fit to the invariant mass spectra of the EBEB and EBEE event cat-
egories is used to study the compatibility of the data with the background-only and the sig-
nal+background hypotheses.
7.1                  Results of the search for resonant excesses                                                                           11

                                                 35.9 fb-1 (13 TeV)                                                   35.9 fb-1 (13 TeV)
  Events / 20 GeV




                                                                      Events / 20 GeV
                             CMS                 Data                                   103   CMS                     Data
                      3            EBEB                                                                 EBEE
                    10                           Fit model                                                            Fit model
                                                 ± 1 std dev                            102                           ± 1 std dev
                    102

                                                                                         10
                     10


                      1                                                                   1
  (data-fit)/σstat




                                                                      (data-fit)/σstat
                         2                                                                2

                         0                                                                0

                     -2                                                                  -2
                             500   1000   1500     2000        2500                           500       1000   1500     2000        2500
                                                       mγ γ (GeV)                                                           mγ γ (GeV)
Figure 2: Observed diphoton invariant mass spectra for the EBEB (left) and EBEE (right) cate-
gories. Also shown are the results of a likelihood fit to the background-only hypothesis. The
shaded region shows the one standard deviation uncertainty band associated with the fit, re-
flecting the statistical uncertainty of the data. The lower panels show the difference between
the data and fit, divided by the statistical uncertainty in the data points.

The test statistic used in the hypothesis tests are based on the profile likelihood ratio:

                                                                      L(µS + B|θ̂µ )
                                                   q(µ) = −2 log                                    ,                                      (4)
                                                                       L(µ̂S + B|θ̂ )

where S and B are the probability density functions for the resonant diphoton signal produc-
tion process and the SM background, respectively; µ is the signal strength parameter, defined
as the ratio between the measured and expected signal cross sections; and θ are the nuisance
parameters of the model used to account for the associated systematic uncertainties. The no-
tation x̂ indicates the best fit value of the parameter x, while x̂y denotes the best fit value of x,
conditionally on y.
The data are in agreement with the absence of any significant resonant excess of events. The
largest deviation observed is an approximately 2 standard deviation local excess at 1.2 TeV for
the wide-width hypothesis, and is similar for both the spin-0 and spin-2 signals.
To set upper limits on the resonant diphoton production rate, the modified frequentist method,
commonly known as CLs [52, 53], is used following the prescription described in Ref. [54].
Asymptotic formulas [55] are used in the calculations of limits.
Expected and observed upper limits at 95% confidence level (CL) on the production of scalar
and RS graviton resonances are shown in Fig. 3. Using leading order cross sections from
PYTHIA , RS gravitons with masses mX below 2.3, 4.1, and 4.6 TeV can be excluded for k̃ = 0.01,
0.1, and 0.2, respectively, corresponding to ΓX /mX = 1.4 × 10−4 , 1.4 × 10−2 , and 5.6 × 10−2 ,
respectively.
Limits can also be set, in a model independent fashion, on the cross sections for events in
the fiducial volume for the resonant pp → γγ process. The signal shape is modeled in the
same way as for the benchmark models, while the signal normalization accounts only for the
detector efficiency and not for any particular signal acceptance. The fiducial volume is defined
12


                                                              35.9 fb-1 (13 TeV)                                                              35.9 fb-1 (13 TeV)
                              10                                                                            10
     σ(pp → G → γ γ ) (fb)




                                                                                   σ(pp → S → γ γ ) (fb)
                                    CMS                   ∼ = 0.01, J=2                                           CMS                   ΓX
                                                          κ
                                                                                                                                        mX = 1.4×10 , J=0
                                                                                                                                                    -4

                                                          Expected limit                                                                Expected limit
                                                           ± 1 std dev
                                                                                                                                            ± 1 std dev
                                                           ± 2 std dev
                                                          Observed limit                                                                    ± 2 std dev
                               1                          G→γ γ (LO)                                         1                          Observed limit




                             10-1                                                                          10-1




                              5×102                2×10         3×10                                        5×102                2×10           3×10
                                               3          3           3                                                      3          3             3
                                          10                                                                            10
                                                                    mG (GeV)                                                                         mS (GeV)
                                                              35.9 fb-1 (13 TeV)                                                              35.9 fb-1 (13 TeV)
                                                                                                            10
     σ(pp → G → γ γ ) (fb)




                                                                                   σ(pp → S → γ γ ) (fb)
                              10                          ∼ = 0.1, J=2                                                                  ΓX
                                    CMS                   κ                                                       CMS                   mX = 1.4×10 , J=0
                                                                                                                                                    -2

                                                          Expected limit                                                                Expected limit
                                                           ± 1 std dev
                                                                                                                                            ± 1 std dev
                                                           ± 2 std dev
                                                          Observed limit                                                                    ± 2 std dev
                               1                          G→γ γ (LO)                                         1                          Observed limit




                             10-1                                                                          10-1




                              5×102                2×10         3×10                                        5×102                2×10           3×10
                                               3          3           3                                                      3          3             3
                                          10                                                                            10
                                                                    mG (GeV)                                                                         mS (GeV)
                                                              35.9 fb-1 (13 TeV)                                                              35.9 fb-1 (13 TeV)
     σ(pp → G → γ γ ) (fb)




                                                                                   σ(pp → S → γ γ ) (fb)




                                    CMS                   ∼ = 0.2, J=2                                            CMS                   ΓX
                                                          κ                                                 10
                                                                                                                                        mX = 5.6×10 , J=0
                                                                                                                                                    -2
                              10
                                                          Expected limit                                                                Expected limit
                                                           ± 1 std dev
                                                                                                                                            ± 1 std dev
                                                           ± 2 std dev
                                                          Observed limit                                                                    ± 2 std dev
                                                          G→γ γ (LO)                                                                    Observed limit
                               1                                                                             1




                             10-1                                                                          10-1




                              5×102                2×10        3×10                                         5×102                2×10          3×10
                                           3          3             3                                                    3          3                3
                                          10                                                                            10
                                                                    mG (GeV)                                                                         mS (GeV)

Figure 3: Expected and observed 95% CL upper limits on the production cross section for RS
gravitons of mass mG and three values of k̃ (left) and for spin-0 resonances of mass mS produced
via gluon fusion for the three width hypotheses (right). The shaded bands represent the 1 and
2 standard deviation uncertainty in the expected limit.

by selecting events in which both photons have generator-level pT > 75 GeV, to match the
selection applied in the event reconstruction and selection. Generator-level photons are also
required to have an isolation energy of less than 10 GeV in a cone of radius 0.4 around the
photon direction. The isolation energy is defined as the pT sum of all final state particles except
neutrinos and the signal photon itself.
The fit is performed independently in the EBEB and EBEE categories for each of the following
width hypotheses: ΓX /mX = 1.4 × 10−4 , 1.4 × 10−2 , and 5.6 × 10−2 . The results for the median
expected exclusion limits on the fiducial cross sections are presented in Fig. 4 for each width
hypothesis.
7.2            Results of the search for nonresonant excesses                                                                                                                                              13


                                                                                 35.9 fb-1 (13 TeV)                                                                                   35.9 fb-1 (13 TeV)
                                                                                                                               10
      σ(pp → X → γ γ ) (fb)




                                                                                                      σ(pp → X → γ γ ) (fb)
                                     CMS                                   ΓX                                                        CMS                                        ΓX
                                                                           mX = 1.4×10                                                                                          mX = 1.4×10
                                                                                       -4                                                                                                   -4


                                                                           Expected limit                                                                                       Expected limit
                                                                               ± 1 std dev                                                                                          ± 1 std dev
                                1                                              ± 2 std dev                                                                                          ± 2 std dev
                                                                           Observed limit                                       1                                               Observed limit




                                     p (γ , γ ) > 75 GeV
                              10-1     T   1   2                                                                                     p (γ , γ ) > 75 GeV
                                                                                                                              10-1     T   1   2
                                     |η(γ , γ )| < 1.4442
                                           1   2                                                                                     |η(γ )| < 1.4442, |η(γ )| > 1.566
                                                                                                                                           1                    2
                                     Isogen(γ , γ ) < 10 GeV                                                                         Isogen(γ , γ ) < 10 GeV
                                                   1   2                                                                                       1   2



                               5×102                                2×10           3×10                                        5×102                                     2×10           3×10
                                                            3          3                 3                                                               3                  3                 3
                                                           10                                                                                          10
                                                                                        mX (GeV)                                                                                             mX (GeV)
                                                                                 35.9 fb-1 (13 TeV)                                                                                   35.9 fb-1 (13 TeV)
                                                                                                                               10
      σ(pp → X → γ γ ) (fb)




                                                                                                      σ(pp → X → γ γ ) (fb)
                                     CMS                                   ΓX                                                        CMS                                        ΓX
                                                                           mX = 1.4×10                                                                                          mX = 1.4×10
                                                                                       -2                                                                                                   -2


                                                                           Expected limit                                                                                       Expected limit
                                                                               ± 1 std dev                                                                                          ± 1 std dev
                                1                                              ± 2 std dev                                                                                          ± 2 std dev
                                                                           Observed limit                                       1                                               Observed limit




                                     p (γ , γ ) > 75 GeV
                              10-1     T   1   2                                                                                     p (γ , γ ) > 75 GeV
                                                                                                                              10-1     T   1   2
                                     |η(γ , γ )| < 1.4442
                                           1   2                                                                                     |η(γ )| < 1.4442, |η(γ )| > 1.566
                                                                                                                                           1                    2
                                     Isogen(γ , γ ) < 10 GeV                                                                         Isogen(γ , γ ) < 10 GeV
                                                   1   2                                                                                       1   2



                               5×102                                2×10           3×10                                        5×102                                     2×10           3×10
                                                            3          3                 3                                                                  3                   3             3
                                                           10                                                                                          10
                                                                                        mX (GeV)                                                                                             mX (GeV)
                                                                                 35.9 fb-1 (13 TeV)                                                                                   35.9 fb-1 (13 TeV)
                               10
      σ(pp → X → γ γ ) (fb)




                                                                                                      σ(pp → X → γ γ ) (fb)




                                     CMS                                   ΓX                                                  10    CMS                                        ΓX
                                                                           mX = 5.6×10                                                                                          mX = 5.6×10
                                                                                       -2                                                                                                   -2


                                                                           Expected limit                                                                                       Expected limit
                                                                               ± 1 std dev                                                                                          ± 1 std dev
                                                                               ± 2 std dev                                                                                          ± 2 std dev
                                1                                          Observed limit                                                                                       Observed limit
                                                                                                                                1




                                     p (γ , γ ) > 75 GeV                                                                             p (γ , γ ) > 75 GeV
                              10-1     T   1   2                                                                              10-1     T   1   2
                                     |η(γ , γ )| < 1.4442                                                                            |η(γ )| < 1.4442, |η(γ )| > 1.566
                                           1   2                                                                                           1                    2
                                     Isogen(γ , γ ) < 10 GeV                                                                         Isogen(γ , γ ) < 10 GeV
                                                   1   2                                                                                       1   2



                               5×102                                2×10           3×10                                        5×102                                     2×10           3×10
                                                                3          3             3                                                               3                  3                 3
                                                           10                                                                                          10
                                                                                        mX (GeV)                                                                                             mX (GeV)

Figure 4: Expected and observed 95% CL upper limits on the fiducial cross section for the
resonant pp → γγ process. Shown are the results in the EBEB (left) and EBEE (right) categories
for the three width hypotheses. The shaded bands represent the 1 and 2 standard deviation
uncertainty in the expected limit.

7.2                      Results of the search for nonresonant excesses
In the nonresonant search, constraints on the signals are determined by adopting a Bayesian
statistical approach. A binned likelihood is constructed from the data, with the binning in
100 GeV steps beginning at 500 GeV. The signal strengths for each model are assumed to have
a flat prior (bounded below by zero). Nuisance parameters are assigned to each of the system-
atic uncertainties described in Section 6.2. Except for the diphoton background normalization
nuisance parameter, which has a flat prior, the prior shapes are either lognormal or Gaussian,
depending on whether or not the uncertainty is bounded below by zero. Nuisance parameters
are marginalized using a Markov chain MC method [56].
14


Figure 5 (upper) presents the data and background prediction “pre-fit,” i.e., before the marginal-
ization of the nuisance parameters. The shaded bands show the systematic uncertainties, ne-
glecting the (unbounded) normalization of the diphoton prediction and the NLO shapes. Fig-
ure 5 (lower) presents the data and background prediction “post-fit,” i.e., after the marginaliza-
tion of the nuisance parameters. Good agreement is found within the uncertainties for both the
pre- and post-fit spectra, although the uncertainties are smaller, as expected, in the latter case.

                                                                           35.9 fb-1 (13 TeV)                                                                                 35.9 fb-1 (13 TeV)
     Events / 100 GeV




                                                                                                        Events / 100 GeV
                              CMS        EBEB          Data                                                                      CMS        EBEE          Data
                   103                                                                                               103
                                                       γ γ pre-fit prediction                                                                             γ γ pre-fit prediction

                         2
                   10                                  jγ , jj pre-fit prediction                                    10     2
                                                                                                                                                          jγ , jj pre-fit prediction



                        10                                                                                                 10


                         1                                                                                                  1


              10−1                                                                                              10−1

                                                                      (Data-Prediction)/ σmSTAT                                                                          (Data-Prediction)/ σmSTAT
     Pull




                                                                                                        Pull



                                                                                            γ γ (GeV)                                                                                          γ γ (GeV)
                         4                                                                                                  4
                                                                      ±1 σSYS / σSTAT                                                                                    ±1 σSYS / σSTAT
                         2                                                                                                  2
                         0                                                                                                  0
                        −2                                                                                                 −2
                        −4                                                                                                 −4
                             600   800 1000 1200 1400 1600 1800 2000 2200 2400 2600                                             600   800 1000 1200 1400 1600 1800 2000 2200 2400 2600
                                                                                     mγ γ (GeV)                                                                                         mγ γ (GeV)

                                                                           35.9 fb-1 (13 TeV)                                                                                 35.9 fb-1 (13 TeV)
     Events / 100 GeV




                                                                                                        Events / 100 GeV




                              CMS        EBEB          Data                                                                      CMS        EBEE          Data
                   103                                 γ γ post-fit prediction                                       103                                  γ γ post-fit prediction
                                                       jγ , jj post-fit prediction                                                                        jγ , jj post-fit prediction
                                                       HLZ nED=2, MS=8 TeV                                                                                HLZ nED=2, MS=8 TeV
                         2                                                                                                  2
                   10                                  Clockwork k=0.1 TeV, M5=10 TeV                                10                                   Clockwork k=0.1 TeV, M5=10 TeV


                        10                                                                                                 10


                         1                                                                                                  1


              10−1                                                                                              10−1

                         3                                            (Data-Prediction)/ σmSTAT                             3                                            (Data-Prediction)/ σmSTAT
     Pull




                                                                                                        Pull




                                                                                            γ γ (GeV)                                                                                          γ γ (GeV)
                         2                                            ±1 σSYS / σSTAT                                       2                                            ±1 σSYS / σSTAT
                         1                                                                                                  1
                         0                                                                                                  0
                        −1                                                                                                 −1
                        −2                                                                                                 −2
                        −3                                                                                                 −3
                             600   800 1000 1200 1400 1600 1800 2000 2200 2400 2600                                             600   800 1000 1200 1400 1600 1800 2000 2200 2400 2600
                                                                                     mγ γ (GeV)                                                                                         mγ γ (GeV)

Figure 5: The diphoton invariant mass distributions in the EBEB (left) and EBEE (right) cat-
egories for the SM diphoton background prediction and the fake background measurement
compared to the data. The last bin includes the overflow. The error bars on the points indi-
cate the statistical uncertainty. The upper (lower) plots show the pre-fit (post-fit) background
estimates. The hatched bands indicate the total pre- or post-fit systematic uncertainties. In-
variant mass distributions from two signal scenarios are superimposed on the lower plots. The
bottom panels show the pull distributions, indicating the difference between the data and back-
ground prediction, divided by the uncertainty in the background, with error bars representing
the statistical uncertainty and shaded bands showing the one standard deviation systematic
uncertainty, normalized by the statistical uncertainty.

For the ADD model, upper limits are set at 95% CL on the signal strength, which are translated
7.2    Results of the search for nonresonant excesses                                                                       15


into lower limits on the mass scale MS by interpolating the value of MS that has a signal strength
of 1.0 excluded. Table 1 summarizes the results for all ADD model conventions probed. The
excluded values of MS range from 5.6 to 9.7 TeV, depending on the convention.

Table 1: Exclusion lower limits obtained on the mass scale MS (in units of TeV) for various
conventions used in the calculation of the ADD large extra dimensional scenario, as described
in Section 4. The total asymmetric uncertainties are shown on the expected limits.

               GRW                Hewett                                           HLZ
      Signal
                             negative positive           nED = 2     nED = 3      nED = 4      nED = 5    nED = 6    nED = 7

 Expected      7.1+ 0.7
                  −0.5          5.5+ 0.1
                                   −0.3       6.3+ 0.6
                                                 −0.4     8.4+ 1.3
                                                             −1.1    8.4+ 0.8
                                                                        −0.6       7.1+ 0.7
                                                                                      −0.5     6.4+ 0.6
                                                                                                  −0.5    6.0+ 0.6
                                                                                                             −0.4    5.6+ 0.6
                                                                                                                        −0.4
 Observed        7.8                 5.6          7.0       9.7        9.3           7.8           7.0      6.6       6.2

The limit-setting strategy for the clockwork model is similar to that for the ADD model. Only
the portion of the diphoton invariant mass spectrum with mγγ > 900 GeV can be used for
limit setting on the clockwork model. This constraint is imposed to maintain a statistically
precise prediction after the translation of the ADD to clockwork signal. The ADD signal is
only simulated for mγγ > 500 GeV and the constructed clockwork signal acquires sufficient
statistics only above 900 GeV. A simplifying effect is that the signal strength normalization
scales as M5−3 , so a direct translation between an upper limit on the signal strength and a lower
limit on M5 can be made (for a fixed value of k). Figure 6 shows the 95% CL exclusion limits
in the k–M5 plane. We are able to exclude values of M5 lower than 5 TeV for k values in the
range of 0.2 GeV to 2.0 TeV. The parameter space with k > M5 is excluded by a perturbativity
requirement, and this region is denoted ‘nonperturbative’ in the exclusion plot.

                                                                                      -1
                                                                                35.9 fb (13 TeV)
                                 102
                          M5 (TeV)




                                            CMS     95% CL exclusion limits on k-M5 space
                                                       Observed limit
                                                       Expected limit
                                                       ± 1 std dev
                                                       ± 2 std dev
                                                       Nonperturbative regime (k > M )
                                                                                       5



                                     10




                                      1

                                     10−4         10−3       10−2       10−1               1
                                                                                           k (TeV)
Figure 6: The 95% CL exclusion limits for the continuous graviton model in the clockwork
framework over the k–M5 parameter space. The shaded bands represent the 1 and 2 standard
deviation uncertainty in the expected limit. The shaded region with k > M5 denotes the area
where the theory becomes nonperturbative.
16


8    Summary
A search has been performed for physics beyond the standard model in high-mass diphoton
events from proton-proton collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. The data used cor-
respond to an integrated luminosity of 35.9 fb−1 collected by the CMS detector in 2016. A
resonant peak in the diphoton invariant mass spectrum could indicate the existence of a new
scalar particle, such as a heavy Higgs boson, or of a Kaluza–Klein excitation of the graviton
in the Randall–Sundrum model of warped extra dimensions. A nonresonant excess could be a
signature of large extra dimensions, in the scenario by Arkani-Hamed, Dimopoulos, and Dvali,
or a continuum clockwork model.
The data are found to be in agreement with the predicted background from standard model
sources, and no evidence for new physics is seen. Masses below 2.3–4.6 TeV are excluded at
95% confidence level for the excited state of the Randall–Sundrum graviton, for a coupling pa-
rameter in the range 0.01 < k̃ < 0.2. Limits are also set on the production of scalar resonances,
and model-independent cross section limits have been extracted as a function of diphoton in-
variant mass for any resonant γγ production process. These results extend the sensitivity of
the previous search performed by the CMS experiment [19] and are compatible with those
reported by the ATLAS Collaboration in Ref. [18]. In the large extra-dimensional model of
Arkani-Hamed, Dimopoulos, and Dvali, exclusion limits on the string mass scale are set in the
range 5.6 < MS < 9.7 TeV, depending on the specific model convention. These results ex-
tend the current best lower limits on MS from the diphoton channel as presented in Ref. [18].
Additionally, the first exclusion limits are set in the two-dimensional parameter space of a con-
tinuum clockwork model.


Acknowledgments
We congratulate our colleagues in the CERN accelerator departments for the excellent perfor-
mance of the LHC and thank the technical and administrative staffs at CERN and at other CMS
institutes for their contributions to the success of the CMS effort. In addition, we gratefully
acknowledge the computing centers and personnel of the Worldwide LHC Computing Grid
for delivering so effectively the computing infrastructure essential to our analyses. Finally,
we acknowledge the enduring support for the construction and operation of the LHC and the
CMS detector provided by the following funding agencies: BMBWF and FWF (Austria); FNRS
and FWO (Belgium); CNPq, CAPES, FAPERJ, FAPERGS, and FAPESP (Brazil); MES (Bulgaria);
CERN; CAS, MoST, and NSFC (China); COLCIENCIAS (Colombia); MSES and CSF (Croa-
tia); RPF (Cyprus); SENESCYT (Ecuador); MoER, ERC IUT, and ERDF (Estonia); Academy of
Finland, MEC, and HIP (Finland); CEA and CNRS/IN2P3 (France); BMBF, DFG, and HGF
(Germany); GSRT (Greece); NKFIA (Hungary); DAE and DST (India); IPM (Iran); SFI (Ireland);
INFN (Italy); MSIP and NRF (Republic of Korea); MES (Latvia); LAS (Lithuania); MOE and UM
(Malaysia); BUAP, CINVESTAV, CONACYT, LNS, SEP, and UASLP-FAI (Mexico); MOS (Mon-
tenegro); MBIE (New Zealand); PAEC (Pakistan); MSHE and NSC (Poland); FCT (Portugal);
JINR (Dubna); MON, RosAtom, RAS, RFBR, and NRC KI (Russia); MESTD (Serbia); SEIDI,
CPAN, PCTI, and FEDER (Spain); MOSTR (Sri Lanka); Swiss Funding Agencies (Switzerland);
MST (Taipei); ThEPCenter, IPST, STAR, and NSTDA (Thailand); TUBITAK and TAEK (Turkey);
NASU and SFFR (Ukraine); STFC (United Kingdom); DOE and NSF (USA).
Individuals have received support from the Marie-Curie program and the European Research
Council and Horizon 2020 Grant, contract No. 675440 (European Union); the Leventis Foun-
dation; the A. P. Sloan Foundation; the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation; the Belgian Fed-
References                                                                                   17


eral Science Policy Office; the Fonds pour la Formation à la Recherche dans l’Industrie et dans
l’Agriculture (FRIA-Belgium); the Agentschap voor Innovatie door Wetenschap en Technologie
(IWT-Belgium); the F.R.S.-FNRS and FWO (Belgium) under the “Excellence of Science - EOS” -
be.h project n. 30820817; the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports (MEYS) of the Czech Re-
public; the Lendület (“Momentum”) Program and the János Bolyai Research Scholarship of the
Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the New National Excellence Program ÚNKP, the NKFIA re-
search grants 123842, 123959, 124845, 124850 and 125105 (Hungary); the Council of Science and
Industrial Research, India; the HOMING PLUS program of the Foundation for Polish Science,
cofinanced from European Union, Regional Development Fund, the Mobility Plus program of
the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, the National Science Center (Poland), contracts
Harmonia 2014/14/M/ST2/00428, Opus 2014/13/B/ST2/02543, 2014/15/B/ST2/03998, and
2015/19/B/ST2/02861, Sonata-bis 2012/07/E/ST2/01406; the National Priorities Research
Program by Qatar National Research Fund; the Programa Estatal de Fomento de la Investi-
gación Cientı́fica y Técnica de Excelencia Marı́a de Maeztu, grant MDM-2015-0509 and the Pro-
grama Severo Ochoa del Principado de Asturias; the Thalis and Aristeia programs cofinanced
by EU-ESF and the Greek NSRF; the Rachadapisek Sompot Fund for Postdoctoral Fellowship,
Chulalongkorn University and the Chulalongkorn Academic into Its 2nd Century Project Ad-
vancement Project (Thailand); the Welch Foundation, contract C-1845; and the Weston Havens
Foundation (USA).


References
 [1] E. Witten, “Dynamical breaking of supersymmetry”, Nucl. Phys. B 188 (1981) 513,
     doi:10.1016/0550-3213(81)90006-7.

 [2] S. Dimopoulos and H. Georgi, “Softly broken supersymmetry and SU(5)”, Nucl. Phys. B
     193 (1981) 150, doi:10.1016/0550-3213(81)90522-8.

 [3] N. Arkani-Hamed, S. Dimopoulos, and G. R. Dvali, “The hierarchy problem and new
     dimensions at a millimeter”, Phys. Lett. B 429 (1998) 263,
     doi:10.1016/S0370-2693(98)00466-3, arXiv:hep-ph/9803315.

 [4] I. Antoniadis, N. Arkani-Hamed, S. Dimopoulos, and G. R. Dvali, “New dimensions at a
     millimeter to a fermi and superstrings at a TeV”, Phys. Lett. B 436 (1998) 257,
     doi:10.1016/S0370-2693(98)00860-0, arXiv:hep-ph/9804398.

 [5] N. Arkani-Hamed, S. Dimopoulos, and G. R. Dvali, “Phenomenology, astrophysics and
     cosmology of theories with submillimeter dimensions and TeV scale quantum gravity”,
     Phys. Rev. D 59 (1999) 086004, doi:10.1103/PhysRevD.59.086004,
     arXiv:hep-ph/9807344.

 [6] L. Randall and R. Sundrum, “A large mass hierarchy from a small extra dimension”,
     Phys. Rev. Lett. 83 (1999) 3370, doi:10.1103/PhysRevLett.83.3370,
     arXiv:hep-ph/9905221.

 [7] L. Randall and R. Sundrum, “An alternative to compactification”, Phys. Rev. Lett. 83
     (1999) 4690, doi:10.1103/PhysRevLett.83.4690, arXiv:hep-th/9906064.

 [8] G. F. Giudice and M. McCullough, “A clockwork theory”, JHEP 02 (2017) 036,
     doi:10.1007/JHEP02(2017)036, arXiv:1610.07962.
18


 [9] I. Antoniadis, S. Dimopoulos, and A. Giveon, “Little string theory at a TeV”, JHEP 05
     (2001) 055, doi:10.1088/1126-6708/2001/05/055, arXiv:hep-th/0103033.

[10] I. Antoniadis, A. Arvanitaki, S. Dimopoulos, and A. Giveon, “Phenomenology of TeV
     little string theory from holography”, Phys. Rev. Lett. 108 (2012) 081602,
     doi:10.1103/PhysRevLett.108.081602, arXiv:1102.4043.

[11] K. Choi and S. H. Im, “Realizing the relaxion from multiple axions and its UV completion
     with high scale supersymmetry”, JHEP 01 (2016) 149,
     doi:10.1007/JHEP01(2016)149, arXiv:1511.00132.

[12] D. E. Kaplan and R. Rattazzi, “Large field excursions and approximate discrete
     symmetries from a clockwork axion”, Phys. Rev. D 93 (2016) 085007,
     doi:10.1103/PhysRevD.93.085007, arXiv:1511.01827.

[13] M. Baryakhtar, “Graviton phenomenology of linear dilaton geometries”, Phys. Rev. D 85
     (2012) 125019, doi:10.1103/PhysRevD.85.125019, arXiv:1202.6674.

[14] G. F. Giudice et al., “Clockwork/linear dilaton: structure and phenomenology”, JHEP 06
     (2018) 009, doi:10.1007/JHEP06(2018)009, arXiv:1711.08437.

[15] G. C. Branco et al., “Theory and phenomenology of two-Higgs-doublet models”, Phys.
     Rept. 516 (2012) 1, doi:10.1016/j.physrep.2012.02.002, arXiv:1106.0034.

[16] T. D. Lee, “A theory of spontaneous T violation”, Phys. Rev. D 8 (1973) 1226,
     doi:10.1103/PhysRevD.8.1226.

[17] N. Craig, J. Galloway, and S. Thomas, “Searching for signs of the second Higgs doublet”,
     (2013). arXiv:1305.2424.

[18] ATLAS Collaboration, “Search for new phenomena in high-mass diphoton final states
                                                           √
     using 37 fb−1 of proton–proton collisions collected at s = 13 TeV with the ATLAS
     detector”, Phys. Lett. B 775 (2017) 105, doi:10.1016/j.physletb.2017.10.039,
     arXiv:1707.04147.

[19] CMS Collaboration, “Search for high-mass diphoton resonances in proton-proton
     collisions at 13 TeV and combination with 8 TeV search”, Phys. Lett. B 767 (2017) 147,
     doi:10.1016/j.physletb.2017.01.027, arXiv:1609.02507.
                                                                          √
[20] ATLAS Collaboration, “Search for resonances in diphoton events at s = 13 TeV with
     the ATLAS detector”, JHEP 09 (2016) 001, doi:10.1007/JHEP09(2016)001,
     arXiv:1606.03833.

[21] CMS Collaboration, “Search√for resonant production of high-mass photon pairs in
     proton-proton collisions at s = 8 and 13 TeV”, Phys. Rev. Lett. 117 (2016) 051802,
     doi:10.1103/PhysRevLett.117.051802, arXiv:1606.04093.

[22] ATLAS
     √       Collaboration, “Search for high-mass diphoton resonances in pp collisions at
       s = 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector”, Phys. Rev. D 92 (2015) 032004,
     doi:10.1103/PhysRevD.92.032004, arXiv:1504.05511.

[23] CMS Collaboration, “Search
                            √ for diphoton resonances in the mass range from 150 to 850
     GeV in pp collisions at s = 8 TeV”, Phys. Lett. B 750 (2015) 494,
     doi:10.1016/j.physletb.2015.09.062, arXiv:1506.02301.
References                                                                                       19


[24] ATLAS Collaboration, “Search for extra
                                         √ dimensions in diphoton events using
     proton-proton collisions recorded at s = 7 TeV with the ATLAS detector at the LHC”,
     New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 043007, doi:10.1088/1367-2630/15/4/043007,
     arXiv:1210.8389.

[25] CMS Collaboration, “Search for signatures of extra dimensions in the diphoton mass
     spectrum at the Large Hadron Collider”, Phys. Rev. Lett. 108 (2012) 111801,
     doi:10.1103/PhysRevLett.108.111801, arXiv:1112.0688.

[26] CDF Collaboration, “Search for new dielectron resonances and Randall-Sundrum
     gravitons at the Collider Detector at Fermilab”, Phys. Rev. Lett. 107 (2011) 051801,
     doi:10.1103/PhysRevLett.107.051801, arXiv:1103.4650.

[27] D0 Collaboration, “Search for Randall-Sundrum gravitons in the dielectron and diphoton
                                                             √
     final states with 5.4 fb−1 of data from pp collisions at s = 1.96 TeV”, Phys. Rev. Lett. 104
     (2010) 241802, doi:10.1103/PhysRevLett.104.241802, arXiv:1004.1826.

[28] CMS Collaboration, “Performance of photon√reconstruction and identification with the
     CMS detector in proton-proton collisions at s = 8 TeV”, JINST 10 (2015) P08010,
     doi:10.1088/1748-0221/10/08/P08010, arXiv:1502.02702.

[29] CMS Collaboration, “The CMS trigger system”, JINST 12 (2017) P01020,
     doi:10.1088/1748-0221/12/01/P01020, arXiv:1609.02366.

[30] CMS Collaboration, “The CMS experiment at the CERN LHC”, JINST 3 (2008) S08004,
     doi:10.1088/1748-0221/3/08/S08004.

[31] CMS Collaboration, “Particle-flow reconstruction and global event description with the
     CMS detector”, JINST 12 (2017) P10003, doi:10.1088/1748-0221/12/10/P10003,
     arXiv:1706.04965.

[32] CMS Collaboration, “Observation of the diphoton decay of the Higgs boson and
     measurement of its properties”, Eur. Phys. J. C 74 (2014) 3076,
     doi:10.1140/epjc/s10052-014-3076-z, arXiv:1407.0558.

[33] CMS Collaboration, “Measurements of√Higgs boson properties in the diphoton decay
     channel in proton-proton collisions at s = 13 TeV”, (2018). arXiv:1804.02716.
     Submitted to JHEP.

[34] T. Gleisberg et al., “Event generation with SHERPA 1.1”, JHEP 02 (2009) 007,
     doi:10.1088/1126-6708/2009/02/007, arXiv:0811.4622.

[35] H.-L. Lai et al., “New parton distributions for collider physics”, Phys. Rev. D 82 (2010)
     074024, doi:10.1103/PhysRevD.82.074024, arXiv:1007.2241.

[36] J. Gao et al., “CT10 next-to-next-to-leading order global analysis of QCD”, Phys. Rev. D
     89 (2014) 033009, doi:10.1103/PhysRevD.89.033009, arXiv:1302.6246.

[37] T. Gleisberg et al., “Helicity formalism for spin-2 particles”, JHEP 09 (2003) 001,
     doi:10.1088/1126-6708/2003/09/001, arXiv:hep-ph/0306182.

[38] G. F. Giudice, R. Rattazzi, and J. D. Wells, “Quantum gravity and extra dimensions at
     high-energy colliders”, Nucl. Phys. B 544 (1999) 3,
     doi:10.1016/S0550-3213(99)00044-9, arXiv:hep-ph/9811291.
20


[39] T. Han, J. D. Lykken, and R.-J. Zhang, “Kaluza-Klein states from large extra dimensions”,
     Phys. Rev. D 59 (1999) 105006, doi:10.1103/PhysRevD.59.105006,
     arXiv:hep-ph/9811350.
[40] J. L. Hewett, “Indirect collider signals for extra dimensions”, Phys. Rev. Lett. 82 (1999)
     4765, doi:10.1103/PhysRevLett.82.4765, arXiv:hep-ph/9811356.
[41] GEANT4 Collaboration, “GEANT4—a simulation toolkit”, Nucl. Instrum. Meth. A 506
     (2003) 250, doi:10.1016/S0168-9002(03)01368-8.
[42] T. Sjöstrand et al., “An introduction to PYTHIA 8.2”, Comput. Phys. Commun. 191 (2015)
     159, doi:10.1016/j.cpc.2015.01.024, arXiv:1410.3012.
[43] NNPDF Collaboration, “Parton distributions with LHC data”, Nucl. Phys. B 867 (2013)
     244, doi:10.1016/j.nuclphysb.2012.10.003, arXiv:1207.1303.
[44] CMS Collaboration, “Event generator tunes obtained from underlying event and
     multiparton scattering measurements”, Eur. Phys. J. C 76 (2016) 155,
     doi:10.1140/epjc/s10052-016-3988-x, arXiv:1512.00815.
[45] S. Hoeche, S. Schumann, and F. Siegert, “Hard photon production and matrix-element
     parton-shower merging”, Phys. Rev. D 81 (2010) 034026,
     doi:10.1103/PhysRevD.81.034026, arXiv:0912.3501.
[46] J. M. Campbell, R. K. Ellis, Y. Li, and C. Williams, “Predictions for diphoton production at
     the LHC through NNLO in QCD”, JHEP 07 (2016) 148,
     doi:10.1007/JHEP07(2016)148, arXiv:1603.02663.
[47] T. Binoth, J. P. Guillet, E. Pilon, and M. Werlen, “A full next-to-leading order study of
     direct photon pair production in hadronic collisions”, Eur. Phys. J. C 16 (2000) 311,
     doi:10.1007/s100520050024, arXiv:hep-ph/9911340.
[48] CMS Collaboration, “CMS luminosity measurements for the 2016 data taking period”,
     CMS Physics Analysis Summary CMS-PAS-LUM-17-001, 2017.
     https://cds.cern.ch/record/2257069.
[49] A. D. Martin, W. J. Stirling, R. S. Thorne, and G. Watt, “Parton distributions for the LHC”,
     Eur. Phys. J. C 63 (2009) 189, doi:10.1140/epjc/s10052-009-1072-5,
     arXiv:0901.0002.
[50] S. Alekhin et al., “The PDF4LHC Working Group Interim Report”, (2011).
     arXiv:1101.0536.
[51] M. Botje et al., “The PDF4LHC Working Group Interim Recommendations”, (2011).
     arXiv:1101.0538.
[52] T. Junk, “Confidence level computation for combining searches with small statistics”,
     Nucl. Instrum. Meth. A 434 (1999) 435, doi:10.1016/S0168-9002(99)00498-2,
     arXiv:hep-ex/9902006.
[53] A. L. Read, “Presentation of search results: the CLs technique”, J. Phys. G 28 (2002) 2693,
     doi:10.1088/0954-3899/28/10/313.
[54] ATLAS and CMS Collaborations, “Procedure for the LHC Higgs boson search
     combination in Summer 2011”, Technical Report CMS-NOTE-2011-005,
     ATL-PHYS-PUB-2011-11, 2011. https://cds.cern.ch/record/1379837.
References                                                                                   21


[55] G. Cowan, K. Cranmer, E. Gross, and O. Vitells, “Asymptotic formulae for
     likelihood-based tests of new physics”, Eur. Phys. J. C 71 (2011) 1554,
     doi:10.1140/epjc/s10052-011-1554-0, arXiv:1007.1727. [Erratum:
     doi:10.1140/epjc/s10052-013-2501-z].

[56] N. Metropolis et al., “Equation of state calculations by fast computing machines”, J.
     Chem. Phys. 21 (1953) 1087, doi:10.1063/1.1699114.
22
                                                                                                 23


A    The CMS Collaboration
Yerevan Physics Institute, Yerevan, Armenia
A.M. Sirunyan, A. Tumasyan
Institut für Hochenergiephysik, Wien, Austria
W. Adam, F. Ambrogi, E. Asilar, T. Bergauer, J. Brandstetter, M. Dragicevic, J. Erö,
A. Escalante Del Valle, M. Flechl, R. Frühwirth1 , V.M. Ghete, J. Hrubec, M. Jeitler1 , N. Krammer,
I. Krätschmer, D. Liko, T. Madlener, I. Mikulec, N. Rad, H. Rohringer, J. Schieck1 , R. Schöfbeck,
M. Spanring, D. Spitzbart, A. Taurok, W. Waltenberger, J. Wittmann, C.-E. Wulz1 , M. Zarucki
Institute for Nuclear Problems, Minsk, Belarus
V. Chekhovsky, V. Mossolov, J. Suarez Gonzalez
Universiteit Antwerpen, Antwerpen, Belgium
E.A. De Wolf, D. Di Croce, X. Janssen, J. Lauwers, M. Pieters, H. Van Haevermaet,
P. Van Mechelen, N. Van Remortel
Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Brussel, Belgium
S. Abu Zeid, F. Blekman, J. D’Hondt, I. De Bruyn, J. De Clercq, K. Deroover, G. Flouris,
D. Lontkovskyi, S. Lowette, I. Marchesini, S. Moortgat, L. Moreels, Q. Python, K. Skovpen,
S. Tavernier, W. Van Doninck, P. Van Mulders, I. Van Parijs
Université Libre de Bruxelles, Bruxelles, Belgium
D. Beghin, B. Bilin, H. Brun, B. Clerbaux, G. De Lentdecker, H. Delannoy, B. Dorney,
G. Fasanella, L. Favart, R. Goldouzian, A. Grebenyuk, A.K. Kalsi, T. Lenzi, J. Luetic, N. Postiau,
E. Starling, L. Thomas, C. Vander Velde, P. Vanlaer, D. Vannerom, Q. Wang
Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium
T. Cornelis, D. Dobur, A. Fagot, M. Gul, I. Khvastunov2 , D. Poyraz, C. Roskas, D. Trocino,
M. Tytgat, W. Verbeke, B. Vermassen, M. Vit, N. Zaganidis
Université Catholique de Louvain, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium
H. Bakhshiansohi, O. Bondu, S. Brochet, G. Bruno, C. Caputo, P. David, C. Delaere, M. Delcourt,
B. Francois, A. Giammanco, G. Krintiras, V. Lemaitre, A. Magitteri, A. Mertens, M. Musich,
K. Piotrzkowski, A. Saggio, M. Vidal Marono, S. Wertz, J. Zobec
Centro Brasileiro de Pesquisas Fisicas, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
F.L. Alves, G.A. Alves, M. Correa Martins Junior, G. Correia Silva, C. Hensel, A. Moraes,
M.E. Pol, P. Rebello Teles
Universidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
E. Belchior Batista Das Chagas, W. Carvalho, J. Chinellato3 , E. Coelho, E.M. Da Costa,
G.G. Da Silveira4 , D. De Jesus Damiao, C. De Oliveira Martins, S. Fonseca De Souza,
H. Malbouisson, D. Matos Figueiredo, M. Melo De Almeida, C. Mora Herrera, L. Mundim,
H. Nogima, W.L. Prado Da Silva, L.J. Sanchez Rosas, A. Santoro, A. Sznajder, M. Thiel,
E.J. Tonelli Manganote3 , F. Torres Da Silva De Araujo, A. Vilela Pereira
Universidade Estadual Paulista a , Universidade Federal do ABC b , São Paulo, Brazil
S. Ahujaa , C.A. Bernardesa , L. Calligarisa , T.R. Fernandez Perez Tomeia , E.M. Gregoresb ,
P.G. Mercadanteb , S.F. Novaesa , SandraS. Padulaa
Institute for Nuclear Research and Nuclear Energy, Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Sofia,
24


Bulgaria
A. Aleksandrov, R. Hadjiiska, P. Iaydjiev, A. Marinov, M. Misheva, M. Rodozov, M. Shopova,
G. Sultanov
University of Sofia, Sofia, Bulgaria
A. Dimitrov, L. Litov, B. Pavlov, P. Petkov
Beihang University, Beijing, China
W. Fang5 , X. Gao5 , L. Yuan
Institute of High Energy Physics, Beijing, China
M. Ahmad, J.G. Bian, G.M. Chen, H.S. Chen, M. Chen, Y. Chen, C.H. Jiang, D. Leggat, H. Liao,
Z. Liu, F. Romeo, S.M. Shaheen6 , A. Spiezia, J. Tao, C. Wang, Z. Wang, E. Yazgan, H. Zhang,
S. Zhang6 , J. Zhao
State Key Laboratory of Nuclear Physics and Technology, Peking University, Beijing, China
Y. Ban, G. Chen, A. Levin, J. Li, L. Li, Q. Li, Y. Mao, S.J. Qian, D. Wang, Z. Xu
Tsinghua University, Beijing, China
Y. Wang
Universidad de Los Andes, Bogota, Colombia
C. Avila, A. Cabrera, C.A. Carrillo Montoya,               L.F. Chaparro Sierra,   C. Florez,
C.F. González Hernández, M.A. Segura Delgado
University of Split, Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering and Naval
Architecture, Split, Croatia
B. Courbon, N. Godinovic, D. Lelas, I. Puljak, T. Sculac
University of Split, Faculty of Science, Split, Croatia
Z. Antunovic, M. Kovac
Institute Rudjer Boskovic, Zagreb, Croatia
V. Brigljevic, D. Ferencek, K. Kadija, B. Mesic, A. Starodumov7 , T. Susa
University of Cyprus, Nicosia, Cyprus
M.W. Ather, A. Attikis, M. Kolosova, G. Mavromanolakis, J. Mousa, C. Nicolaou, F. Ptochos,
P.A. Razis, H. Rykaczewski
Charles University, Prague, Czech Republic
M. Finger8 , M. Finger Jr.8
Escuela Politecnica Nacional, Quito, Ecuador
E. Ayala
Universidad San Francisco de Quito, Quito, Ecuador
E. Carrera Jarrin
Academy of Scientific Research and Technology of the Arab Republic of Egypt, Egyptian
Network of High Energy Physics, Cairo, Egypt
Y. Assran9,10 , S. Elgammal10 , S. Khalil11
National Institute of Chemical Physics and Biophysics, Tallinn, Estonia
S. Bhowmik, A. Carvalho Antunes De Oliveira, R.K. Dewanjee, K. Ehataht, M. Kadastik,
M. Raidal, C. Veelken
                                                                                                  25


Department of Physics, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland
P. Eerola, H. Kirschenmann, J. Pekkanen, M. Voutilainen
Helsinki Institute of Physics, Helsinki, Finland
J. Havukainen, J.K. Heikkilä, T. Järvinen, V. Karimäki, R. Kinnunen, T. Lampén, K. Lassila-
Perini, S. Laurila, S. Lehti, T. Lindén, P. Luukka, T. Mäenpää, H. Siikonen, E. Tuominen,
J. Tuominiemi
Lappeenranta University of Technology, Lappeenranta, Finland
T. Tuuva
IRFU, CEA, Université Paris-Saclay, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
M. Besancon, F. Couderc, M. Dejardin, D. Denegri, J.L. Faure, F. Ferri, S. Ganjour, A. Givernaud,
P. Gras, G. Hamel de Monchenault, P. Jarry, C. Leloup, E. Locci, J. Malcles, G. Negro, J. Rander,
A. Rosowsky, M.Ö. Sahin, M. Titov
Laboratoire Leprince-Ringuet, Ecole polytechnique, CNRS/IN2P3, Université Paris-Saclay,
Palaiseau, France
A. Abdulsalam12 , C. Amendola, I. Antropov, F. Beaudette, P. Busson, C. Charlot,
R. Granier de Cassagnac, I. Kucher, A. Lobanov, J. Martin Blanco, M. Nguyen, C. Ochando,
G. Ortona, P. Paganini, P. Pigard, J. Rembser, R. Salerno, J.B. Sauvan, Y. Sirois, A.G. Stahl Leiton,
A. Zabi, A. Zghiche
Université de Strasbourg, CNRS, IPHC UMR 7178, Strasbourg, France
J.-L. Agram13 , J. Andrea, D. Bloch, J.-M. Brom, E.C. Chabert, V. Cherepanov, C. Collard,
E. Conte13 , J.-C. Fontaine13 , D. Gelé, U. Goerlach, M. Jansová, A.-C. Le Bihan, N. Tonon,
P. Van Hove
Centre de Calcul de l’Institut National de Physique Nucleaire et de Physique des Particules,
CNRS/IN2P3, Villeurbanne, France
S. Gadrat
Université de Lyon, Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1, CNRS-IN2P3, Institut de Physique
Nucléaire de Lyon, Villeurbanne, France
S. Beauceron, C. Bernet, G. Boudoul, N. Chanon, R. Chierici, D. Contardo, P. Depasse,
H. El Mamouni, J. Fay, L. Finco, S. Gascon, M. Gouzevitch, G. Grenier, B. Ille, F. Lagarde,
I.B. Laktineh, H. Lattaud, M. Lethuillier, L. Mirabito, A.L. Pequegnot, S. Perries, A. Popov14 ,
V. Sordini, G. Touquet, M. Vander Donckt, S. Viret
Georgian Technical University, Tbilisi, Georgia
A. Khvedelidze8
Tbilisi State University, Tbilisi, Georgia
Z. Tsamalaidze8
RWTH Aachen University, I. Physikalisches Institut, Aachen, Germany
C. Autermann, L. Feld, M.K. Kiesel, K. Klein, M. Lipinski, M. Preuten, M.P. Rauch,
C. Schomakers, J. Schulz, M. Teroerde, B. Wittmer, V. Zhukov14
RWTH Aachen University, III. Physikalisches Institut A, Aachen, Germany
A. Albert, D. Duchardt, M. Endres, M. Erdmann, S. Ghosh, A. Güth, T. Hebbeker,
C. Heidemann, K. Hoepfner, H. Keller, L. Mastrolorenzo, M. Merschmeyer, A. Meyer, P. Millet,
S. Mukherjee, T. Pook, M. Radziej, H. Reithler, M. Rieger, A. Schmidt, D. Teyssier
26


RWTH Aachen University, III. Physikalisches Institut B, Aachen, Germany
G. Flügge, O. Hlushchenko, T. Kress, A. Künsken, T. Müller, A. Nehrkorn, A. Nowack,
C. Pistone, O. Pooth, D. Roy, H. Sert, A. Stahl15
Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron, Hamburg, Germany
M. Aldaya Martin, T. Arndt, C. Asawatangtrakuldee, I. Babounikau, K. Beernaert, O. Behnke,
U. Behrens, A. Bermúdez Martı́nez, D. Bertsche, A.A. Bin Anuar, K. Borras16 , V. Botta,
A. Campbell, P. Connor, C. Contreras-Campana, F. Costanza, V. Danilov, A. De Wit,
M.M. Defranchis, C. Diez Pardos, D. Domı́nguez Damiani, G. Eckerlin, T. Eichhorn, A. Elwood,
E. Eren, E. Gallo17 , A. Geiser, J.M. Grados Luyando, A. Grohsjean, P. Gunnellini, M. Guthoff,
M. Haranko, A. Harb, J. Hauk, H. Jung, M. Kasemann, J. Keaveney, C. Kleinwort, J. Knolle,
D. Krücker, W. Lange, A. Lelek, T. Lenz, K. Lipka, W. Lohmann18 , R. Mankel, I.-A. Melzer-
Pellmann, A.B. Meyer, M. Meyer, M. Missiroli, G. Mittag, J. Mnich, V. Myronenko, S.K. Pflitsch,
D. Pitzl, A. Raspereza, M. Savitskyi, P. Saxena, P. Schütze, C. Schwanenberger, R. Shevchenko,
A. Singh, H. Tholen, O. Turkot, A. Vagnerini, G.P. Van Onsem, R. Walsh, Y. Wen, K. Wichmann,
C. Wissing, O. Zenaiev
University of Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany
R. Aggleton, S. Bein, L. Benato, A. Benecke, V. Blobel, M. Centis Vignali, T. Dreyer, E. Garutti,
D. Gonzalez, J. Haller, A. Hinzmann, A. Karavdina, G. Kasieczka, R. Klanner, R. Kogler,
N. Kovalchuk, S. Kurz, V. Kutzner, J. Lange, D. Marconi, J. Multhaup, M. Niedziela,
C.E.N. Niemeyer, D. Nowatschin, A. Perieanu, A. Reimers, O. Rieger, C. Scharf, P. Schleper,
S. Schumann, J. Schwandt, J. Sonneveld, H. Stadie, G. Steinbrück, F.M. Stober, M. Stöver,
A. Vanhoefer, B. Vormwald, I. Zoi
Karlsruher Institut fuer Technologie, Karlsruhe, Germany
M. Akbiyik, C. Barth, M. Baselga, S. Baur, E. Butz, R. Caspart, T. Chwalek, F. Colombo,
W. De Boer, A. Dierlamm, K. El Morabit, N. Faltermann, B. Freund, M. Giffels,
M.A. Harrendorf, F. Hartmann15 , S.M. Heindl, U. Husemann, F. Kassel15 , I. Katkov14 ,
S. Kudella, H. Mildner, S. Mitra, M.U. Mozer, Th. Müller, M. Plagge, G. Quast, K. Rabbertz,
M. Schröder, I. Shvetsov, G. Sieber, H.J. Simonis, R. Ulrich, S. Wayand, M. Weber, T. Weiler,
S. Williamson, C. Wöhrmann, R. Wolf
Institute of Nuclear and Particle Physics (INPP), NCSR Demokritos, Aghia Paraskevi,
Greece
G. Anagnostou, G. Daskalakis, T. Geralis, A. Kyriakis, D. Loukas, G. Paspalaki, I. Topsis-Giotis
National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece
G. Karathanasis, S. Kesisoglou, P. Kontaxakis, A. Panagiotou, I. Papavergou, N. Saoulidou,
E. Tziaferi, K. Vellidis
National Technical University of Athens, Athens, Greece
K. Kousouris, I. Papakrivopoulos, G. Tsipolitis
University of Ioánnina, Ioánnina, Greece
I. Evangelou, C. Foudas, P. Gianneios, P. Katsoulis, P. Kokkas, S. Mallios, N. Manthos,
I. Papadopoulos, E. Paradas, J. Strologas, F.A. Triantis, D. Tsitsonis
MTA-ELTE Lendület CMS Particle and Nuclear Physics Group, Eötvös Loránd University,
Budapest, Hungary
M. Bartók19 , M. Csanad, N. Filipovic, P. Major, M.I. Nagy, G. Pasztor, O. Surányi, G.I. Veres
Wigner Research Centre for Physics, Budapest, Hungary
                                                                                                     27


G. Bencze, C. Hajdu, D. Horvath20 , Á. Hunyadi, F. Sikler, T.Á. Vámi, V. Veszpremi,
G. Vesztergombi†
Institute of Nuclear Research ATOMKI, Debrecen, Hungary
N. Beni, S. Czellar, J. Karancsi21 , A. Makovec, J. Molnar, Z. Szillasi
Institute of Physics, University of Debrecen, Debrecen, Hungary
P. Raics, Z.L. Trocsanyi, B. Ujvari
Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore, India
S. Choudhury, J.R. Komaragiri, P.C. Tiwari
National Institute of Science Education and Research, HBNI, Bhubaneswar, India
S. Bahinipati22 , C. Kar, P. Mal, K. Mandal, A. Nayak23 , D.K. Sahoo22 , S.K. Swain
Panjab University, Chandigarh, India
S. Bansal, S.B. Beri, V. Bhatnagar, S. Chauhan, R. Chawla, N. Dhingra, R. Gupta, A. Kaur,
M. Kaur, S. Kaur, R. Kumar, P. Kumari, M. Lohan, A. Mehta, K. Sandeep, S. Sharma, J.B. Singh,
A.K. Virdi, G. Walia
University of Delhi, Delhi, India
A. Bhardwaj, B.C. Choudhary, R.B. Garg, M. Gola, S. Keshri, Ashok Kumar, S. Malhotra,
M. Naimuddin, P. Priyanka, K. Ranjan, Aashaq Shah, R. Sharma
Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics, HBNI, Kolkata, India
R. Bhardwaj24 , M. Bharti, R. Bhattacharya, S. Bhattacharya, U. Bhawandeep24 , D. Bhowmik,
S. Dey, S. Dutt24 , S. Dutta, S. Ghosh, K. Mondal, S. Nandan, A. Purohit, P.K. Rout, A. Roy,
S. Roy Chowdhury, G. Saha, S. Sarkar, M. Sharan, B. Singh, S. Thakur24
Indian Institute of Technology Madras, Madras, India
P.K. Behera
Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Mumbai, India
R. Chudasama, D. Dutta, V. Jha, V. Kumar, P.K. Netrakanti, L.M. Pant, P. Shukla
Tata Institute of Fundamental Research-A, Mumbai, India
T. Aziz, M.A. Bhat, S. Dugad, G.B. Mohanty, N. Sur, B. Sutar, RavindraKumar Verma
Tata Institute of Fundamental Research-B, Mumbai, India
S. Banerjee, S. Bhattacharya, S. Chatterjee, P. Das, M. Guchait, Sa. Jain, S. Karmakar, S. Kumar,
M. Maity25 , G. Majumder, K. Mazumdar, N. Sahoo, T. Sarkar25
Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune, India
S. Chauhan, S. Dube, V. Hegde, A. Kapoor, K. Kothekar, S. Pandey, A. Rane, S. Sharma
Institute for Research in Fundamental Sciences (IPM), Tehran, Iran
S. Chenarani26 , E. Eskandari Tadavani, S.M. Etesami26 , M. Khakzad, M. Mohammadi Na-
jafabadi, M. Naseri, F. Rezaei Hosseinabadi, B. Safarzadeh27 , M. Zeinali
University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland
M. Felcini, M. Grunewald
INFN Sezione di Bari a , Università di Bari b , Politecnico di Bari c , Bari, Italy
M. Abbresciaa,b , C. Calabriaa,b , A. Colaleoa , D. Creanzaa,c , L. Cristellaa,b , N. De Filippisa,c ,
M. De Palmaa,b , A. Di Florioa,b , F. Erricoa,b , L. Fiorea , A. Gelmia,b , G. Iasellia,c , M. Incea,b ,
S. Lezkia,b , G. Maggia,c , M. Maggia , G. Minielloa,b , S. Mya,b , S. Nuzzoa,b , A. Pompilia,b ,
28


G. Pugliesea,c , R. Radognaa , A. Ranieria , G. Selvaggia,b , A. Sharmaa , L. Silvestrisa , R. Vendittia ,
P. Verwilligena , G. Zitoa
INFN Sezione di Bologna a , Università di Bologna b , Bologna, Italy
G. Abbiendia , C. Battilanaa,b , D. Bonacorsia,b , L. Borgonovia,b , S. Braibant-Giacomellia,b ,
R. Campaninia,b , P. Capiluppia,b , A. Castroa,b , F.R. Cavalloa , S.S. Chhibraa,b , C. Cioccaa ,
G. Codispotia,b , M. Cuffiania,b , G.M. Dallavallea , F. Fabbria , A. Fanfania,b , P. Giacomellia ,
C. Grandia , L. Guiduccia,b , F. Iemmia,b , S. Marcellinia , G. Masettia , A. Montanaria ,
F.L. Navarriaa,b , A. Perrottaa , F. Primaveraa,b,15 , A.M. Rossia,b , T. Rovellia,b , G.P. Sirolia,b ,
N. Tosia
INFN Sezione di Catania a , Università di Catania b , Catania, Italy
S. Albergoa,b , A. Di Mattiaa , R. Potenzaa,b , A. Tricomia,b , C. Tuvea,b
INFN Sezione di Firenze a , Università di Firenze b , Firenze, Italy
G. Barbaglia , K. Chatterjeea,b , V. Ciullia,b , C. Civininia , R. D’Alessandroa,b , E. Focardia,b ,
G. Latino, P. Lenzia,b , M. Meschinia , S. Paolettia , L. Russoa,28 , G. Sguazzonia , D. Stroma ,
L. Viliania
INFN Laboratori Nazionali di Frascati, Frascati, Italy
L. Benussi, S. Bianco, F. Fabbri, D. Piccolo
INFN Sezione di Genova a , Università di Genova b , Genova, Italy
F. Ferroa , F. Raveraa,b , E. Robuttia , S. Tosia,b
INFN Sezione di Milano-Bicocca a , Università di Milano-Bicocca b , Milano, Italy
A. Benagliaa , A. Beschib , L. Brianzaa,b , F. Brivioa,b , V. Cirioloa,b,15 , S. Di Guidaa,d,15 ,
M.E. Dinardoa,b , S. Fiorendia,b , S. Gennaia , A. Ghezzia,b , P. Govonia,b , M. Malbertia,b ,
S. Malvezzia , A. Massironia,b , D. Menascea , L. Moronia , M. Paganonia,b , D. Pedrinia ,
S. Ragazzia,b , T. Tabarelli de Fatisa,b , D. Zuolo
INFN Sezione di Napoli a , Università di Napoli ’Federico II’ b , Napoli, Italy, Università della
Basilicata c , Potenza, Italy, Università G. Marconi d , Roma, Italy
S. Buontempoa , N. Cavalloa,c , A. Di Crescenzoa,b , F. Fabozzia,c , F. Fiengaa , G. Galatia ,
A.O.M. Iorioa,b , W.A. Khana , L. Listaa , S. Meolaa,d,15 , P. Paoluccia,15 , C. Sciaccaa,b ,
E. Voevodinaa,b
INFN Sezione di Padova a , Università di Padova b , Padova, Italy, Università di Trento c ,
Trento, Italy
P. Azzia , N. Bacchettaa , A. Bolettia,b , A. Bragagnolo, R. Carlina,b , P. Checchiaa , M. Dall’Ossoa,b ,
P. De Castro Manzanoa , T. Dorigoa , U. Dossellia , F. Gasparinia,b , U. Gasparinia,b , A. Gozzelinoa ,
S.Y. Hoh, S. Lacapraraa , P. Lujan, M. Margonia,b , A.T. Meneguzzoa,b , J. Pazzinia,b ,
N. Pozzobona,b , P. Ronchesea,b , R. Rossina,b , F. Simonettoa,b , A. Tiko, E. Torassaa , S. Venturaa ,
M. Zanettia,b , P. Zottoa,b
INFN Sezione di Pavia a , Università di Pavia b , Pavia, Italy
A. Braghieria , A. Magnania , P. Montagnaa,b , S.P. Rattia,b , V. Rea , M. Ressegottia,b , C. Riccardia,b ,
P. Salvinia , I. Vaia,b , P. Vituloa,b
INFN Sezione di Perugia a , Università di Perugia b , Perugia, Italy
M. Biasinia,b , G.M. Bileia , C. Cecchia,b , D. Ciangottinia,b , L. Fanòa,b , P. Laricciaa,b , R. Leonardia,b ,
E. Manonia , G. Mantovania,b , V. Mariania,b , M. Menichellia , A. Rossia,b , A. Santocchiaa,b ,
D. Spigaa
                                                                                                       29


INFN Sezione di Pisa a , Università di Pisa b , Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa c , Pisa, Italy
K. Androsova , P. Azzurria , G. Bagliesia , L. Bianchinia , T. Boccalia , L. Borrello, R. Castaldia ,
M.A. Cioccia,b , R. Dell’Orsoa , G. Fedia , F. Fioria,c , L. Gianninia,c , A. Giassia , M.T. Grippoa ,
F. Ligabuea,c , E. Mancaa,c , G. Mandorlia,c , A. Messineoa,b , F. Pallaa , A. Rizzia,b , P. Spagnoloa ,
R. Tenchinia , G. Tonellia,b , A. Venturia , P.G. Verdinia
INFN Sezione di Roma a , Sapienza Università di Roma b , Rome, Italy
L. Baronea,b , F. Cavallaria , M. Cipriania,b , D. Del Rea,b , E. Di Marcoa,b , M. Diemoza , S. Gellia,b ,
E. Longoa,b , B. Marzocchia,b , P. Meridiania , G. Organtinia,b , F. Pandolfia , R. Paramattia,b ,
F. Preiatoa,b , S. Rahatloua,b , C. Rovellia , F. Santanastasioa,b
INFN Sezione di Torino a , Università di Torino b , Torino, Italy, Università del Piemonte
Orientale c , Novara, Italy
N. Amapanea,b , R. Arcidiaconoa,c , S. Argiroa,b , M. Arneodoa,c , N. Bartosika , R. Bellana,b ,
C. Biinoa , N. Cartigliaa , F. Cennaa,b , S. Comettia , M. Costaa,b , R. Covarellia,b , N. Demariaa ,
B. Kiania,b , C. Mariottia , S. Masellia , E. Migliorea,b , V. Monacoa,b , E. Monteila,b , M. Montenoa ,
M.M. Obertinoa,b , L. Pachera,b , N. Pastronea , M. Pelliccionia , G.L. Pinna Angionia,b ,
A. Romeroa,b , M. Ruspaa,c , R. Sacchia,b , K. Shchelinaa,b , V. Solaa , A. Solanoa,b , D. Soldia,b ,
A. Staianoa
INFN Sezione di Trieste a , Università di Trieste b , Trieste, Italy
S. Belfortea , V. Candelisea,b , M. Casarsaa , F. Cossuttia , A. Da Rolda,b , G. Della Riccaa,b ,
F. Vazzolera,b , A. Zanettia
Kyungpook National University, Daegu, Korea
D.H. Kim, G.N. Kim, M.S. Kim, J. Lee, S. Lee, S.W. Lee, C.S. Moon, Y.D. Oh, S. Sekmen, D.C. Son,
Y.C. Yang
Chonnam National University, Institute for Universe and Elementary Particles, Kwangju,
Korea
H. Kim, D.H. Moon, G. Oh
Hanyang University, Seoul, Korea
J. Goh29 , T.J. Kim
Korea University, Seoul, Korea
S. Cho, S. Choi, Y. Go, D. Gyun, S. Ha, B. Hong, Y. Jo, K. Lee, K.S. Lee, S. Lee, J. Lim, S.K. Park,
Y. Roh
Sejong University, Seoul, Korea
H.S. Kim
Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea
J. Almond, J. Kim, J.S. Kim, H. Lee, K. Lee, K. Nam, S.B. Oh, B.C. Radburn-Smith, S.h. Seo,
U.K. Yang, H.D. Yoo, G.B. Yu
University of Seoul, Seoul, Korea
D. Jeon, H. Kim, J.H. Kim, J.S.H. Lee, I.C. Park
Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon, Korea
Y. Choi, C. Hwang, J. Lee, I. Yu
Vilnius University, Vilnius, Lithuania
V. Dudenas, A. Juodagalvis, J. Vaitkus
30


National Centre for Particle Physics, Universiti Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
I. Ahmed, Z.A. Ibrahim, M.A.B. Md Ali30 , F. Mohamad Idris31 , W.A.T. Wan Abdullah,
M.N. Yusli, Z. Zolkapli
Universidad de Sonora (UNISON), Hermosillo, Mexico
J.F. Benitez, A. Castaneda Hernandez, J.A. Murillo Quijada
Centro de Investigacion y de Estudios Avanzados del IPN, Mexico City, Mexico
H. Castilla-Valdez, E. De La Cruz-Burelo, M.C. Duran-Osuna, I. Heredia-De La Cruz32 ,
R. Lopez-Fernandez, J. Mejia Guisao, R.I. Rabadan-Trejo, M. Ramirez-Garcia, G. Ramirez-
Sanchez, R Reyes-Almanza, A. Sanchez-Hernandez
Universidad Iberoamericana, Mexico City, Mexico
S. Carrillo Moreno, C. Oropeza Barrera, F. Vazquez Valencia
Benemerita Universidad Autonoma de Puebla, Puebla, Mexico
J. Eysermans, I. Pedraza, H.A. Salazar Ibarguen, C. Uribe Estrada
Universidad Autónoma de San Luis Potosı́, San Luis Potosı́, Mexico
A. Morelos Pineda
University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand
D. Krofcheck
University of Canterbury, Christchurch, New Zealand
S. Bheesette, P.H. Butler
National Centre for Physics, Quaid-I-Azam University, Islamabad, Pakistan
A. Ahmad, M. Ahmad, M.I. Asghar, Q. Hassan, H.R. Hoorani, A. Saddique, M.A. Shah,
M. Shoaib, M. Waqas
National Centre for Nuclear Research, Swierk, Poland
H. Bialkowska, M. Bluj, B. Boimska, T. Frueboes, M. Górski, M. Kazana, K. Nawrocki,
M. Szleper, P. Traczyk, P. Zalewski
Institute of Experimental Physics, Faculty of Physics, University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland
K. Bunkowski, A. Byszuk33 , K. Doroba, A. Kalinowski, M. Konecki, J. Krolikowski, M. Misiura,
M. Olszewski, A. Pyskir, M. Walczak
Laboratório de Instrumentação e Fı́sica Experimental de Partı́culas, Lisboa, Portugal
M. Araujo, P. Bargassa, C. Beirão Da Cruz E Silva, A. Di Francesco, P. Faccioli, B. Galinhas,
M. Gallinaro, J. Hollar, N. Leonardo, M.V. Nemallapudi, J. Seixas, G. Strong, O. Toldaiev,
D. Vadruccio, J. Varela
Joint Institute for Nuclear Research, Dubna, Russia
S. Afanasiev, P. Bunin, M. Gavrilenko, I. Golutvin, I. Gorbunov, A. Kamenev, V. Karjavine,
A. Lanev, A. Malakhov, V. Matveev34,35 , P. Moisenz, V. Palichik, V. Perelygin, S. Shmatov,
S. Shulha, N. Skatchkov, V. Smirnov, N. Voytishin, A. Zarubin
Petersburg Nuclear Physics Institute, Gatchina (St. Petersburg), Russia
V. Golovtsov, Y. Ivanov, V. Kim36 , E. Kuznetsova37 , P. Levchenko, V. Murzin, V. Oreshkin,
I. Smirnov, D. Sosnov, V. Sulimov, L. Uvarov, S. Vavilov, A. Vorobyev
Institute for Nuclear Research, Moscow, Russia
Yu. Andreev, A. Dermenev, S. Gninenko, N. Golubev, A. Karneyeu, M. Kirsanov, N. Krasnikov,
A. Pashenkov, D. Tlisov, A. Toropin
                                                                                               31


Institute for Theoretical and Experimental Physics, Moscow, Russia
V. Epshteyn, V. Gavrilov, N. Lychkovskaya, V. Popov, I. Pozdnyakov, G. Safronov,
A. Spiridonov, A. Stepennov, V. Stolin, M. Toms, E. Vlasov, A. Zhokin
Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology, Moscow, Russia
T. Aushev
National Research Nuclear University ’Moscow Engineering Physics Institute’ (MEPhI),
Moscow, Russia
R. Chistov38 , M. Danilov38 , P. Parygin, D. Philippov, S. Polikarpov38 , E. Tarkovskii
P.N. Lebedev Physical Institute, Moscow, Russia
V. Andreev, M. Azarkin35 , I. Dremin35 , M. Kirakosyan35 , S.V. Rusakov, A. Terkulov
Skobeltsyn Institute of Nuclear Physics, Lomonosov Moscow State University, Moscow,
Russia
A. Baskakov, A. Belyaev, E. Boos, M. Dubinin39 , L. Dudko, A. Ershov, A. Gribushin,
V. Klyukhin, O. Kodolova, I. Lokhtin, I. Miagkov, S. Obraztsov, S. Petrushanko, V. Savrin,
A. Snigirev
Novosibirsk State University (NSU), Novosibirsk, Russia
A. Barnyakov40 , V. Blinov40 , T. Dimova40 , L. Kardapoltsev40 , Y. Skovpen40
Institute for High Energy Physics of National Research Centre ’Kurchatov Institute’,
Protvino, Russia
I. Azhgirey, I. Bayshev, S. Bitioukov, D. Elumakhov, A. Godizov, V. Kachanov, A. Kalinin,
D. Konstantinov, P. Mandrik, V. Petrov, R. Ryutin, S. Slabospitskii, A. Sobol, S. Troshin,
N. Tyurin, A. Uzunian, A. Volkov
National Research Tomsk Polytechnic University, Tomsk, Russia
A. Babaev, S. Baidali, V. Okhotnikov
University of Belgrade, Faculty of Physics and Vinca Institute of Nuclear Sciences, Belgrade,
Serbia
P. Adzic41 , P. Cirkovic, D. Devetak, M. Dordevic, J. Milosevic
Centro de Investigaciones Energéticas Medioambientales y Tecnológicas (CIEMAT),
Madrid, Spain
J. Alcaraz Maestre, A. Álvarez Fernández, I. Bachiller, M. Barrio Luna, J.A. Brochero Cifuentes,
M. Cerrada, N. Colino, B. De La Cruz, A. Delgado Peris, C. Fernandez Bedoya,
J.P. Fernández Ramos, J. Flix, M.C. Fouz, O. Gonzalez Lopez, S. Goy Lopez, J.M. Hernandez,
M.I. Josa, D. Moran, A. Pérez-Calero Yzquierdo, J. Puerta Pelayo, I. Redondo, L. Romero,
M.S. Soares, A. Triossi
Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Madrid, Spain
C. Albajar, J.F. de Trocóniz
Universidad de Oviedo, Oviedo, Spain
J. Cuevas, C. Erice, J. Fernandez Menendez, S. Folgueras, I. Gonzalez Caballero,
J.R. González Fernández, E. Palencia Cortezon, V. Rodrı́guez Bouza, S. Sanchez Cruz, P. Vischia,
J.M. Vizan Garcia
Instituto de Fı́sica de Cantabria (IFCA), CSIC-Universidad de Cantabria, Santander, Spain
I.J. Cabrillo, A. Calderon, B. Chazin Quero, J. Duarte Campderros, M. Fernandez,
P.J. Fernández Manteca, A. Garcı́a Alonso, J. Garcia-Ferrero, G. Gomez, A. Lopez Virto,
32


J. Marco, C. Martinez Rivero, P. Martinez Ruiz del Arbol, F. Matorras, J. Piedra Gomez,
C. Prieels, T. Rodrigo, A. Ruiz-Jimeno, L. Scodellaro, N. Trevisani, I. Vila, R. Vilar Cortabitarte
University of Ruhuna, Department of Physics, Matara, Sri Lanka
N. Wickramage
CERN, European Organization for Nuclear Research, Geneva, Switzerland
D. Abbaneo, B. Akgun, E. Auffray, G. Auzinger, P. Baillon, A.H. Ball, D. Barney, J. Bendavid,
M. Bianco, A. Bocci, C. Botta, E. Brondolin, T. Camporesi, M. Cepeda, G. Cerminara,
E. Chapon, Y. Chen, G. Cucciati, D. d’Enterria, A. Dabrowski, N. Daci, V. Daponte, A. David,
A. De Roeck, N. Deelen, M. Dobson, M. Dünser, N. Dupont, A. Elliott-Peisert, P. Everaerts,
F. Fallavollita42 , D. Fasanella, G. Franzoni, J. Fulcher, W. Funk, D. Gigi, A. Gilbert, K. Gill,
F. Glege, M. Guilbaud, D. Gulhan, J. Hegeman, C. Heidegger, V. Innocente, A. Jafari, P. Janot,
O. Karacheban18 , J. Kieseler, A. Kornmayer, M. Krammer1 , C. Lange, P. Lecoq, C. Lourenço,
L. Malgeri, M. Mannelli, F. Meijers, J.A. Merlin, S. Mersi, E. Meschi, P. Milenovic43 , F. Moortgat,
M. Mulders, J. Ngadiuba, S. Nourbakhsh, S. Orfanelli, L. Orsini, F. Pantaleo15 , L. Pape, E. Perez,
M. Peruzzi, A. Petrilli, G. Petrucciani, A. Pfeiffer, M. Pierini, F.M. Pitters, D. Rabady, A. Racz,
T. Reis, G. Rolandi44 , M. Rovere, H. Sakulin, C. Schäfer, C. Schwick, M. Seidel, M. Selvaggi,
A. Sharma, P. Silva, P. Sphicas45 , A. Stakia, J. Steggemann, M. Tosi, D. Treille, A. Tsirou,
V. Veckalns46 , M. Verzetti, W.D. Zeuner
Paul Scherrer Institut, Villigen, Switzerland
L. Caminada47 , K. Deiters, W. Erdmann, R. Horisberger, Q. Ingram, H.C. Kaestli, D. Kotlinski,
U. Langenegger, T. Rohe, S.A. Wiederkehr
ETH Zurich - Institute for Particle Physics and Astrophysics (IPA), Zurich, Switzerland
M. Backhaus, L. Bäni, P. Berger, N. Chernyavskaya, G. Dissertori, M. Dittmar, M. Donegà,
C. Dorfer, C. Grab, D. Hits, J. Hoss, T. Klijnsma, W. Lustermann, R.A. Manzoni, M. Marionneau,
M.T. Meinhard, F. Micheli, P. Musella, F. Nessi-Tedaldi, J. Pata, F. Pauss, G. Perrin, L. Perrozzi,
S. Pigazzini, M. Quittnat, D. Ruini, D.A. Sanz Becerra, M. Schönenberger, L. Shchutska,
V.R. Tavolaro, K. Theofilatos, M.L. Vesterbacka Olsson, R. Wallny, D.H. Zhu
Universität Zürich, Zurich, Switzerland
T.K. Aarrestad, C. Amsler48 , D. Brzhechko, M.F. Canelli, A. De Cosa, R. Del Burgo, S. Donato,
C. Galloni, T. Hreus, B. Kilminster, S. Leontsinis, I. Neutelings, D. Pinna, G. Rauco, P. Robmann,
D. Salerno, K. Schweiger, C. Seitz, Y. Takahashi, A. Zucchetta
National Central University, Chung-Li, Taiwan
Y.H. Chang, K.y. Cheng, T.H. Doan, Sh. Jain, R. Khurana, C.M. Kuo, W. Lin, A. Pozdnyakov,
S.S. Yu
National Taiwan University (NTU), Taipei, Taiwan
P. Chang, Y. Chao, K.F. Chen, P.H. Chen, W.-S. Hou, Arun Kumar, Y.F. Liu, R.-S. Lu, E. Paganis,
A. Psallidas, A. Steen
Chulalongkorn University, Faculty of Science, Department of Physics, Bangkok, Thailand
B. Asavapibhop, N. Srimanobhas, N. Suwonjandee
Çukurova University, Physics Department, Science and Art Faculty, Adana, Turkey
A. Bat, F. Boran, S. Cerci49 , S. Damarseckin, Z.S. Demiroglu, F. Dolek, C. Dozen, I. Dumanoglu,
S. Girgis, G. Gokbulut, Y. Guler, E. Gurpinar, I. Hos50 , C. Isik, E.E. Kangal51 , O. Kara,
A. Kayis Topaksu, U. Kiminsu, M. Oglakci, G. Onengut, K. Ozdemir52 , A. Polatoz,
D. Sunar Cerci49 , B. Tali49 , U.G. Tok, S. Turkcapar, I.S. Zorbakir, C. Zorbilmez
                                                                                                33


Middle East Technical University, Physics Department, Ankara, Turkey
B. Isildak53 , G. Karapinar54 , M. Yalvac, M. Zeyrek
Bogazici University, Istanbul, Turkey
I.O. Atakisi, E. Gülmez, M. Kaya55 , O. Kaya56 , S. Ozkorucuklu57 , S. Tekten, E.A. Yetkin58
Istanbul Technical University, Istanbul, Turkey
M.N. Agaras, S. Atay, A. Cakir, K. Cankocak, Y. Komurcu, S. Sen59
Institute for Scintillation Materials of National Academy of Science of Ukraine, Kharkov,
Ukraine
B. Grynyov
National Scientific Center, Kharkov Institute of Physics and Technology, Kharkov, Ukraine
L. Levchuk
University of Bristol, Bristol, United Kingdom
F. Ball, L. Beck, J.J. Brooke, D. Burns, E. Clement, D. Cussans, O. Davignon, H. Flacher,
J. Goldstein, G.P. Heath, H.F. Heath, L. Kreczko, D.M. Newbold60 , S. Paramesvaran, B. Penning,
T. Sakuma, D. Smith, V.J. Smith, J. Taylor, A. Titterton
Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Didcot, United Kingdom
K.W. Bell, A. Belyaev61 , C. Brew, R.M. Brown, D. Cieri, D.J.A. Cockerill, J.A. Coughlan,
K. Harder, S. Harper, J. Linacre, E. Olaiya, D. Petyt, C.H. Shepherd-Themistocleous, A. Thea,
I.R. Tomalin, T. Williams, W.J. Womersley
Imperial College, London, United Kingdom
R. Bainbridge, P. Bloch, J. Borg, S. Breeze, O. Buchmuller, A. Bundock, S. Casasso,
D. Colling, P. Dauncey, G. Davies, M. Della Negra, R. Di Maria, Y. Haddad, G. Hall, G. Iles,
T. James, M. Komm, C. Laner, L. Lyons, A.-M. Magnan, S. Malik, A. Martelli, J. Nash62 ,
A. Nikitenko7 , V. Palladino, M. Pesaresi, A. Richards, A. Rose, E. Scott, C. Seez, A. Shtipliyski,
G. Singh, M. Stoye, T. Strebler, S. Summers, A. Tapper, K. Uchida, T. Virdee15 , N. Wardle,
D. Winterbottom, J. Wright, S.C. Zenz
Brunel University, Uxbridge, United Kingdom
J.E. Cole, P.R. Hobson, A. Khan, P. Kyberd, C.K. Mackay, A. Morton, I.D. Reid, L. Teodorescu,
S. Zahid
Baylor University, Waco, USA
K. Call, J. Dittmann, K. Hatakeyama, H. Liu, C. Madrid, B. Mcmaster, N. Pastika, C. Smith
Catholic University of America, Washington DC, USA
R. Bartek, A. Dominguez
The University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, USA
A. Buccilli, S.I. Cooper, C. Henderson, P. Rumerio, C. West
Boston University, Boston, USA
D. Arcaro, T. Bose, D. Gastler, D. Rankin, C. Richardson, J. Rohlf, L. Sulak, D. Zou
Brown University, Providence, USA
G. Benelli, X. Coubez, D. Cutts, M. Hadley, J. Hakala, U. Heintz, J.M. Hogan63 , K.H.M. Kwok,
E. Laird, G. Landsberg, J. Lee, Z. Mao, M. Narain, S. Sagir64 , R. Syarif, E. Usai, D. Yu
University of California, Davis, Davis, USA
R. Band, C. Brainerd, R. Breedon, D. Burns, M. Calderon De La Barca Sanchez, M. Chertok,
34


J. Conway, R. Conway, P.T. Cox, R. Erbacher, C. Flores, G. Funk, W. Ko, O. Kukral, R. Lander,
M. Mulhearn, D. Pellett, J. Pilot, S. Shalhout, M. Shi, D. Stolp, D. Taylor, K. Tos, M. Tripathi,
Z. Wang, F. Zhang
University of California, Los Angeles, USA
M. Bachtis, C. Bravo, R. Cousins, A. Dasgupta, A. Florent, J. Hauser, M. Ignatenko, N. Mccoll,
S. Regnard, D. Saltzberg, C. Schnaible, V. Valuev
University of California, Riverside, Riverside, USA
E. Bouvier, K. Burt, R. Clare, J.W. Gary, S.M.A. Ghiasi Shirazi, G. Hanson, G. Karapostoli,
E. Kennedy, F. Lacroix, O.R. Long, M. Olmedo Negrete, M.I. Paneva, W. Si, L. Wang, H. Wei,
S. Wimpenny, B.R. Yates
University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, USA
J.G. Branson, S. Cittolin, M. Derdzinski, R. Gerosa, D. Gilbert, B. Hashemi, A. Holzner, D. Klein,
G. Kole, V. Krutelyov, J. Letts, M. Masciovecchio, D. Olivito, S. Padhi, M. Pieri, M. Sani,
V. Sharma, S. Simon, M. Tadel, A. Vartak, S. Wasserbaech65 , J. Wood, F. Würthwein, A. Yagil,
G. Zevi Della Porta
University of California, Santa Barbara - Department of Physics, Santa Barbara, USA
N. Amin, R. Bhandari, J. Bradmiller-Feld, C. Campagnari, M. Citron, A. Dishaw, V. Dutta,
M. Franco Sevilla, L. Gouskos, R. Heller, J. Incandela, A. Ovcharova, H. Qu, J. Richman,
D. Stuart, I. Suarez, S. Wang, J. Yoo
California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, USA
D. Anderson, A. Bornheim, J.M. Lawhorn, H.B. Newman, T.Q. Nguyen, M. Spiropulu,
J.R. Vlimant, R. Wilkinson, S. Xie, Z. Zhang, R.Y. Zhu
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, USA
M.B. Andrews, T. Ferguson, T. Mudholkar, M. Paulini, M. Sun, I. Vorobiev, M. Weinberg
University of Colorado Boulder, Boulder, USA
J.P. Cumalat, W.T. Ford, F. Jensen, A. Johnson, M. Krohn, E. MacDonald, T. Mulholland, R. Patel,
K. Stenson, K.A. Ulmer, S.R. Wagner
Cornell University, Ithaca, USA
J. Alexander, J. Chaves, Y. Cheng, J. Chu, A. Datta, K. Mcdermott, N. Mirman, J.R. Patterson,
D. Quach, A. Rinkevicius, A. Ryd, L. Skinnari, L. Soffi, S.M. Tan, Z. Tao, J. Thom, J. Tucker,
P. Wittich, M. Zientek
Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, Batavia, USA
S. Abdullin, M. Albrow, M. Alyari, G. Apollinari, A. Apresyan, A. Apyan, S. Banerjee,
L.A.T. Bauerdick, A. Beretvas, J. Berryhill, P.C. Bhat, G. Bolla† , K. Burkett, J.N. Butler,
A. Canepa, G.B. Cerati, H.W.K. Cheung, F. Chlebana, M. Cremonesi, J. Duarte, V.D. Elvira,
J. Freeman, Z. Gecse, E. Gottschalk, L. Gray, D. Green, S. Grünendahl, O. Gutsche, J. Hanlon,
R.M. Harris, S. Hasegawa, J. Hirschauer, Z. Hu, B. Jayatilaka, S. Jindariani, M. Johnson, U. Joshi,
B. Klima, M.J. Kortelainen, B. Kreis, S. Lammel, D. Lincoln, R. Lipton, M. Liu, T. Liu, J. Lykken,
K. Maeshima, J.M. Marraffino, D. Mason, P. McBride, P. Merkel, S. Mrenna, S. Nahn, V. O’Dell,
K. Pedro, C. Pena, O. Prokofyev, G. Rakness, L. Ristori, A. Savoy-Navarro66 , B. Schneider,
E. Sexton-Kennedy, A. Soha, W.J. Spalding, L. Spiegel, S. Stoynev, J. Strait, N. Strobbe, L. Taylor,
S. Tkaczyk, N.V. Tran, L. Uplegger, E.W. Vaandering, C. Vernieri, M. Verzocchi, R. Vidal,
M. Wang, H.A. Weber, A. Whitbeck
                                                                                                35


University of Florida, Gainesville, USA
D. Acosta, P. Avery, P. Bortignon, D. Bourilkov, A. Brinkerhoff, L. Cadamuro, A. Carnes,
M. Carver, D. Curry, R.D. Field, S.V. Gleyzer, B.M. Joshi, J. Konigsberg, A. Korytov, K.H. Lo,
P. Ma, K. Matchev, H. Mei, G. Mitselmakher, K. Shi, D. Sperka, J. Wang, S. Wang
Florida International University, Miami, USA
Y.R. Joshi, S. Linn
Florida State University, Tallahassee, USA
A. Ackert, T. Adams, A. Askew, S. Hagopian, V. Hagopian, K.F. Johnson, T. Kolberg,
G. Martinez, T. Perry, H. Prosper, A. Saha, C. Schiber, V. Sharma, R. Yohay
Florida Institute of Technology, Melbourne, USA
M.M. Baarmand, V. Bhopatkar, S. Colafranceschi, M. Hohlmann, D. Noonan, M. Rahmani,
T. Roy, F. Yumiceva
University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC), Chicago, USA
M.R. Adams, L. Apanasevich, D. Berry, R.R. Betts, R. Cavanaugh, X. Chen, S. Dittmer,
O. Evdokimov, C.E. Gerber, D.A. Hangal, D.J. Hofman, K. Jung, J. Kamin, C. Mills,
I.D. Sandoval Gonzalez, M.B. Tonjes, N. Varelas, H. Wang, X. Wang, Z. Wu, J. Zhang
The University of Iowa, Iowa City, USA
M. Alhusseini, B. Bilki67 , W. Clarida, K. Dilsiz68 , S. Durgut, R.P. Gandrajula, M. Haytmyradov,
V. Khristenko, J.-P. Merlo, A. Mestvirishvili, A. Moeller, J. Nachtman, H. Ogul69 , Y. Onel,
F. Ozok70 , A. Penzo, C. Snyder, E. Tiras, J. Wetzel
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, USA
B. Blumenfeld, A. Cocoros, N. Eminizer, D. Fehling, L. Feng, A.V. Gritsan, W.T. Hung,
P. Maksimovic, J. Roskes, U. Sarica, M. Swartz, M. Xiao, C. You
The University of Kansas, Lawrence, USA
A. Al-bataineh, P. Baringer, A. Bean, S. Boren, J. Bowen, A. Bylinkin, J. Castle, S. Khalil,
A. Kropivnitskaya, D. Majumder, W. Mcbrayer, M. Murray, C. Rogan, S. Sanders, E. Schmitz,
J.D. Tapia Takaki, Q. Wang
Kansas State University, Manhattan, USA
S. Duric, A. Ivanov, K. Kaadze, D. Kim, Y. Maravin, D.R. Mendis, T. Mitchell, A. Modak,
A. Mohammadi, L.K. Saini, N. Skhirtladze
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, USA
F. Rebassoo, D. Wright
University of Maryland, College Park, USA
A. Baden, O. Baron, A. Belloni, S.C. Eno, Y. Feng, C. Ferraioli, N.J. Hadley, S. Jabeen, G.Y. Jeng,
R.G. Kellogg, J. Kunkle, A.C. Mignerey, F. Ricci-Tam, Y.H. Shin, A. Skuja, S.C. Tonwar, K. Wong
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, USA
D. Abercrombie, B. Allen, V. Azzolini, A. Baty, G. Bauer, R. Bi, S. Brandt, W. Busza, I.A. Cali,
M. D’Alfonso, Z. Demiragli, G. Gomez Ceballos, M. Goncharov, P. Harris, D. Hsu, M. Hu,
Y. Iiyama, G.M. Innocenti, M. Klute, D. Kovalskyi, Y.-J. Lee, P.D. Luckey, B. Maier, A.C. Marini,
C. Mcginn, C. Mironov, S. Narayanan, X. Niu, C. Paus, C. Roland, G. Roland, G.S.F. Stephans,
K. Sumorok, K. Tatar, D. Velicanu, J. Wang, T.W. Wang, B. Wyslouch, S. Zhaozhong
36


University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, USA
A.C. Benvenuti, R.M. Chatterjee, A. Evans, P. Hansen, S. Kalafut, Y. Kubota, Z. Lesko, J. Mans,
N. Ruckstuhl, R. Rusack, J. Turkewitz, M.A. Wadud
University of Mississippi, Oxford, USA
J.G. Acosta, S. Oliveros
University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, USA
E. Avdeeva, K. Bloom, D.R. Claes, C. Fangmeier, F. Golf, R. Gonzalez Suarez, R. Kamalieddin,
I. Kravchenko, J. Monroy, J.E. Siado, G.R. Snow, B. Stieger
State University of New York at Buffalo, Buffalo, USA
A. Godshalk, C. Harrington, I. Iashvili, A. Kharchilava, C. Mclean, D. Nguyen, A. Parker,
S. Rappoccio, B. Roozbahani
Northeastern University, Boston, USA
G. Alverson, E. Barberis, C. Freer, A. Hortiangtham, D.M. Morse, T. Orimoto, R. Teix-
eira De Lima, T. Wamorkar, B. Wang, A. Wisecarver, D. Wood
Northwestern University, Evanston, USA
S. Bhattacharya, O. Charaf, K.A. Hahn, N. Mucia, N. Odell, M.H. Schmitt, K. Sung, M. Trovato,
M. Velasco
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, USA
R. Bucci, N. Dev, M. Hildreth, K. Hurtado Anampa, C. Jessop, D.J. Karmgard, N. Kellams,
K. Lannon, W. Li, N. Loukas, N. Marinelli, F. Meng, C. Mueller, Y. Musienko34 , M. Planer,
A. Reinsvold, R. Ruchti, P. Siddireddy, G. Smith, S. Taroni, M. Wayne, A. Wightman, M. Wolf,
A. Woodard
The Ohio State University, Columbus, USA
J. Alimena, L. Antonelli, B. Bylsma, L.S. Durkin, S. Flowers, B. Francis, A. Hart, C. Hill, W. Ji,
T.Y. Ling, W. Luo, B.L. Winer, H.W. Wulsin
Princeton University, Princeton, USA
S. Cooperstein, P. Elmer, J. Hardenbrook, S. Higginbotham, A. Kalogeropoulos, D. Lange,
M.T. Lucchini, J. Luo, D. Marlow, K. Mei, I. Ojalvo, J. Olsen, C. Palmer, P. Piroué, J. Salfeld-
Nebgen, D. Stickland, C. Tully
University of Puerto Rico, Mayaguez, USA
S. Malik, S. Norberg
Purdue University, West Lafayette, USA
A. Barker, V.E. Barnes, S. Das, L. Gutay, M. Jones, A.W. Jung, A. Khatiwada, B. Mahakud,
D.H. Miller, N. Neumeister, C.C. Peng, S. Piperov, H. Qiu, J.F. Schulte, J. Sun, F. Wang, R. Xiao,
W. Xie
Purdue University Northwest, Hammond, USA
T. Cheng, J. Dolen, N. Parashar
Rice University, Houston, USA
Z. Chen, K.M. Ecklund, S. Freed, F.J.M. Geurts, M. Kilpatrick, W. Li, B.P. Padley, J. Roberts,
J. Rorie, W. Shi, Z. Tu, J. Zabel, A. Zhang
University of Rochester, Rochester, USA
A. Bodek, P. de Barbaro, R. Demina, Y.t. Duh, J.L. Dulemba, C. Fallon, T. Ferbel, M. Galanti,
A. Garcia-Bellido, J. Han, O. Hindrichs, A. Khukhunaishvili, P. Tan, R. Taus
                                                                                          37


Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, Piscataway, USA
A. Agapitos, J.P. Chou, Y. Gershtein, T.A. Gómez Espinosa, E. Halkiadakis, M. Heindl,
E. Hughes, S. Kaplan, R. Kunnawalkam Elayavalli, S. Kyriacou, A. Lath, R. Montalvo, K. Nash,
M. Osherson, H. Saka, S. Salur, S. Schnetzer, D. Sheffield, S. Somalwar, R. Stone, S. Thomas,
P. Thomassen, M. Walker
University of Tennessee, Knoxville, USA
A.G. Delannoy, J. Heideman, G. Riley, S. Spanier
Texas A&M University, College Station, USA
O. Bouhali71 , A. Celik, M. Dalchenko, M. De Mattia, A. Delgado, S. Dildick, R. Eusebi,
J. Gilmore, T. Huang, T. Kamon72 , S. Luo, R. Mueller, A. Perloff, L. Perniè, D. Rathjens,
A. Safonov
Texas Tech University, Lubbock, USA
N. Akchurin, J. Damgov, F. De Guio, P.R. Dudero, S. Kunori, K. Lamichhane, S.W. Lee,
T. Mengke, S. Muthumuni, T. Peltola, S. Undleeb, I. Volobouev, Z. Wang
Vanderbilt University, Nashville, USA
S. Greene, A. Gurrola, R. Janjam, W. Johns, C. Maguire, A. Melo, H. Ni, K. Padeken,
J.D. Ruiz Alvarez, P. Sheldon, S. Tuo, J. Velkovska, M. Verweij, Q. Xu
University of Virginia, Charlottesville, USA
M.W. Arenton, P. Barria, B. Cox, R. Hirosky, M. Joyce, A. Ledovskoy, H. Li, C. Neu,
T. Sinthuprasith, Y. Wang, E. Wolfe, F. Xia
Wayne State University, Detroit, USA
R. Harr, P.E. Karchin, N. Poudyal, J. Sturdy, P. Thapa, S. Zaleski
University of Wisconsin - Madison, Madison, WI, USA
M. Brodski, J. Buchanan, C. Caillol, D. Carlsmith, S. Dasu, L. Dodd, B. Gomber, M. Grothe,
M. Herndon, A. Hervé, U. Hussain, P. Klabbers, A. Lanaro, K. Long, R. Loveless, T. Ruggles,
A. Savin, N. Smith, W.H. Smith, N. Woods
†: Deceased
1: Also at Vienna University of Technology, Vienna, Austria
2: Also at IRFU, CEA, Université Paris-Saclay, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
3: Also at Universidade Estadual de Campinas, Campinas, Brazil
4: Also at Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil
5: Also at Université Libre de Bruxelles, Bruxelles, Belgium
6: Also at University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China
7: Also at Institute for Theoretical and Experimental Physics, Moscow, Russia
8: Also at Joint Institute for Nuclear Research, Dubna, Russia
9: Also at Suez University, Suez, Egypt
10: Now at British University in Egypt, Cairo, Egypt
11: Also at Zewail City of Science and Technology, Zewail, Egypt
12: Also at Department of Physics, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia
13: Also at Université de Haute Alsace, Mulhouse, France
14: Also at Skobeltsyn Institute of Nuclear Physics, Lomonosov Moscow State University,
Moscow, Russia
15: Also at CERN, European Organization for Nuclear Research, Geneva, Switzerland
16: Also at RWTH Aachen University, III. Physikalisches Institut A, Aachen, Germany
17: Also at University of Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany
38


18: Also at Brandenburg University of Technology, Cottbus, Germany
19: Also at MTA-ELTE Lendület CMS Particle and Nuclear Physics Group, Eötvös Loránd
University, Budapest, Hungary
20: Also at Institute of Nuclear Research ATOMKI, Debrecen, Hungary
21: Also at Institute of Physics, University of Debrecen, Debrecen, Hungary
22: Also at Indian Institute of Technology Bhubaneswar, Bhubaneswar, India
23: Also at Institute of Physics, Bhubaneswar, India
24: Also at Shoolini University, Solan, India
25: Also at University of Visva-Bharati, Santiniketan, India
26: Also at Isfahan University of Technology, Isfahan, Iran
27: Also at Plasma Physics Research Center, Science and Research Branch, Islamic Azad
University, Tehran, Iran
28: Also at Università degli Studi di Siena, Siena, Italy
29: Also at Kyunghee University, Seoul, Korea
30: Also at International Islamic University of Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
31: Also at Malaysian Nuclear Agency, MOSTI, Kajang, Malaysia
32: Also at Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologı́a, Mexico city, Mexico
33: Also at Warsaw University of Technology, Institute of Electronic Systems, Warsaw, Poland
34: Also at Institute for Nuclear Research, Moscow, Russia
35: Now at National Research Nuclear University ’Moscow Engineering Physics Institute’
(MEPhI), Moscow, Russia
36: Also at St. Petersburg State Polytechnical University, St. Petersburg, Russia
37: Also at University of Florida, Gainesville, USA
38: Also at P.N. Lebedev Physical Institute, Moscow, Russia
39: Also at California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, USA
40: Also at Budker Institute of Nuclear Physics, Novosibirsk, Russia
41: Also at Faculty of Physics, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia
42: Also at INFN Sezione di Pavia a , Università di Pavia b , Pavia, Italy
43: Also at University of Belgrade, Faculty of Physics and Vinca Institute of Nuclear Sciences,
Belgrade, Serbia
44: Also at Scuola Normale e Sezione dell’INFN, Pisa, Italy
45: Also at National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece
46: Also at Riga Technical University, Riga, Latvia
47: Also at Universität Zürich, Zurich, Switzerland
48: Also at Stefan Meyer Institute for Subatomic Physics (SMI), Vienna, Austria
49: Also at Adiyaman University, Adiyaman, Turkey
50: Also at Istanbul Aydin University, Istanbul, Turkey
51: Also at Mersin University, Mersin, Turkey
52: Also at Piri Reis University, Istanbul, Turkey
53: Also at Ozyegin University, Istanbul, Turkey
54: Also at Izmir Institute of Technology, Izmir, Turkey
55: Also at Marmara University, Istanbul, Turkey
56: Also at Kafkas University, Kars, Turkey
57: Also at Istanbul University, Faculty of Science, Istanbul, Turkey
58: Also at Istanbul Bilgi University, Istanbul, Turkey
59: Also at Hacettepe University, Ankara, Turkey
60: Also at Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Didcot, United Kingdom
61: Also at School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Southampton, Southampton,
United Kingdom
                                                                          39


62:   Also at Monash University, Faculty of Science, Clayton, Australia
63:   Also at Bethel University, St. Paul, USA
64:   Also at Karamanoğlu Mehmetbey University, Karaman, Turkey
65:   Also at Utah Valley University, Orem, USA
66:   Also at Purdue University, West Lafayette, USA
67:   Also at Beykent University, Istanbul, Turkey
68:   Also at Bingol University, Bingol, Turkey
69:   Also at Sinop University, Sinop, Turkey
70:   Also at Mimar Sinan University, Istanbul, Istanbul, Turkey
71:   Also at Texas A&M University at Qatar, Doha, Qatar
72:   Also at Kyungpook National University, Daegu, Korea
